Seasonality in the frequency of collision has been shown by a number of studies. For example, Nelson and Curry (1995) and Osborn et al. (1998 2000) showed a positive relationship between bird abundance and collision rate and over the seasons, finding that the rates were lowest in winter, increased in spring, remained similar in summer and decreased in autumn (fall), and concludedthat bird fatality patterns appeared to mirror seasonal changes in bird abundance and activity. In the APWRA, Smallwood et al. (2009) found that collision rates of both Redtailed Hawk and all birds studied combined were related to seasonal utilisation of rotor area, with flights being especially deadly during late spring and summer. Hunt (2002) found more dead Golden Eagles in spring and summer than in autumn and winter, suggesting the possibility of differences in hunting behaviour, whereas Whitetailed Eagles in Norway increased their activity rate during the early breeding season, which was reflected in the pattern of collision mortality in the wind farm (May et al. 2010 Dahl et al. 2013).;Working in Navarra in the north of Spain, Lekuona and Ursa (2007) detected a peak in the mortality of passerines in wind farms during September to October, which matched with postbreeding migration and the addition of recently fledged young birds to the populations concerned. Erickson et al. (2014) also recorded most fatalities on autumn migration, with a smaller peak in spring for some smallpasserine families such as Hirundinidae, Turdidae, Vireonidae and Parulidae. In contrast, other families such as Emberizidae and Alaudidae combined showed the highest collision rate in spring. As a result of the different patterns between families, the authors suggested that it was difficult to establish general patterns.;In the Strait of Gibraltar, between southwest Europe and north west Africa, one of the most important migration routes for many soaring birds of the Palearctic (Box 8.2), most collisions recorded by Barrios and Rodrguez (2004) and de Lucas et al. (2008) were of resident bird species. The majority of observed flights migrating through the area were considered to be at low risk of collision because there was a low frequency of passage between the turbines. Most birds flew at a higher elevation than the rotorswept area, and lower altitude flights coincided mainly with very low wind speeds, when the turbines were not operational.;Krijgsveld et al. (2009) also found that 73 of collision fatalities concerned local and diurnally active birds, with comparatively few (27) nocturnally migrating birds. Despite the occurrence of nights with heavy migration of Redwing Turdus iliacus and unfavourable weather resulting in reduced flight altitude and poor visibility, just one was found as a victim. It may be speculated that the migration of passerines tends to occur at altitudes well above rotor height and therefore that there is little risk of collision for the species involved.