To attempt to answer the key question of whether these rates of exchange of heat, water and trace gases were large enough to have measurable effects on ecosystem structure and function, the Crop Windenergy EXperiment (CWEX) series of field experiments undertook extensive in situ microclimate measurements during the growing season within a wind farm (Rajewski et al. 2013). Surfacemean and turbulent wind conditions upwind and downwind of single turbines, a single line of turbines and multiple lines of turbines under a variety of wind speed, directions and surface stability conditions in a large utilityscale wind farm located in a vast corn field were measured and reported. Vertically pointing lidars measured profiles of wind speed and turbulence kinetic energy from 40 m to 220 m concurrently with the surface measurements. The study was able to confirm that turbines do create measurable changes in microclimate. Direct in situ measurements of fluxes upwind and downwind of lines of turbines at times when the turbines were known to be operating provided evidence that the turbines were creating an increase in the downward CO2 flux over the crop during the daytime. Their influence on latent heat flux (moisture flux) was more ambiguous, however.;On the basis of their wind farm measurements and previous modelling and measurements of the aerodynamics of agricultural shelterbelts (Wang et al. 2001), Rajewski et al. (2013) proposed three mechanisms that influence surface micrometeorological conditions in the near lee, that is, within a few rotor diameters of turbines (1) direct modification of surface microclimate by wind turbine wakes that are intersecting the surface (2) modification of vertical wind profiles, scales of turbulence and vertical mixing between the surface and overlying boundary layer by overhead wakes that have not reached the surface and (3) localised enhancement of mean wind speed and modifications of fluxes within a few rotor diameters downwind due to static pressure fields (high pressure upwind and low pressure downwind) around each turbine and line of turbines. Their experiments did not, however, provide measurements of plant growth and yield influences due to turbines.;Rajewski et al. (2014) report on heat, moisture and CO2 flux measurements from the CWEX10CWEX11 field campaigns conducted during the growing seasons of 2010 and 2011 in the same wind farms as studied by Rajewski et al. (2013). Their data taken in a Maize Zea mays field demonstrated that turbines were probably enhancing daytime CO2 flux down into the crop canopy, but also raising nighttime temperature, which enhances respiration over short periods. Rajewski et al. (2014) point out that, despite the uniform appearance of the crop landscape, variability within and between fields due to Maize cultivar, soil texture and moisture content, and management techniques leads to large uncertainties in measured fluxes. Such conditions make it extremely difficult to