The term wind farm generally refers to more than two wind turbines connected to the national electricity grid. Modern wind farms tend to comprise turbines that generate more than 1 MW, and typically 2 MW of power. As wind farms are only as productive as the wind resource that powers them, they tend to be sited at elevated and exposed locations where there are good average wind speeds and a minimum of obstacles and obstructions such as trees, hills and other buildings to affect the wind resource. Other important aspects of their siting include sufficient separation fromnoisesensitive neighbours, good access to the electricity grid, good site access to transport the turbine components to the site, and an absence of special environmental or landscape designations (see The development process, below).;With policy support for renewable energy and wind power globally, the size of wind farms keeps increasing. At the time of writing, Alta Wind Energy Center (AWEC) in California, USA, is the largest single wind farm in the world. Once complete, it will have a capacity of 1,548 MW generated from up to 600 turbines (California Energy Commission 2015). Several of the worlds largest wind farms are in the USA, with others scattered across the globe in Asia, Australasia and Europe (Table 1.2). In contrast, the UKs largest site at Whitelee near Glasgow, at 215 turbines producing 539 MW, is around a third of the size and capacity of the current world leader. It is, however, the second largest wind farm in Europe.;Table 1.2 A selection of some of the largest wind farms in the world.;In the UK, a number of government policies and parliamentary acts govern the planning process for onshore wind. Key policies include the UK Governments National Planning Policy Framework, the National Policy Statement for Renewable Energy Infrastructure, the Planning Act and the Localism Act, all of which apply to England and Wales the Scottish Planning Policy for Renewable Energy, which applies to Scotland and the Planning Policy Statement for Northern Ireland. Further requirements are set out in the individual Town and Country Planning Acts for England, Wales and Scotland.;Table 1.3 Wind farm consenting regimes in the UK.