While scientific literature on the impacts of wind farms on non flying terrestrial mammals is in short supply, this review makes it obvious that effects on these species cannot be ruled out. Although effects may be complex and difficult to predict, concern is raised particularly for larger mammals because of their dependence on undisturbed refugia and suggested sensitivity to landscapescale impacts. Some of these species may indeed routinely inhabit managed landscapes with frequent human presence, therefore being more tolerant to disturbances and possibly less likely to be negatively affected. However, even in such landscapes, patches of relatively undisturbed habitats may be a limiting factor, and anyintrusion in these patches may change the conditions for wildlife considerably.; The effects of noise and visual cues from turbines. The review shows that there is an almost complete absence of such studies. Effects from direct habitat loss, infrastructure, construction work, maintenance and increased accessibility can be discussed based on results from studies of other forms of development, but this is not the case for the unique properties of wind turbines in operation.; Cumulative effects of wind power and other developments. Construction of several wind farms that in isolation may not have had large impacts may in combination have large effects, for example by creating barrier effects at the landscape level. Similarly, the effects of wind power development must be viewed in combination with effects from other developments.; Effects of habitat change at the landscape level. There is often a lack of geographic analyses of wind power developments in relation to animal habitats. Largescale developments at a national level may result in a rapid decrease in important habitats as well as the connection between them. One example is the current trend in countries in northern Europe and the Iberian peninsula to site wind farms in upland, forested and rugged terrain, which coincides with preferred areas for large carnivores.;It is important that effects are studied at the appropriate temporal scale, since shortterm studies tend to underestimate the longterm effects of disturbance (Findlay  Bourdages 2000 Vistnes  Nellemann 2008). The rather narrow geographic spread of available research conducted in Europe and North America limits the inference of this review. With the global increase in wind power, studies on the effects on terrestrial mammals could and should cover a broader array of species, habitats and biomes.;Despite the scant literature, the authors believe that this review has implications for the planning and management of wind power. As a precautionary principle, one should aim at minimising negative effects on terrestrial mammals, even when the effects are not fully proven. That would mean, for example, avoiding construction work during particularly sensitive periods (e.g. in late winter or during calving), limiting traffic and public access to roads, or avoiding