Moreover, the findings to date must be placed in the context of the population dynamics of a species that takes about 1415 years to reach maturity (Germano 1994) and has a generation time of about 25 years (Edwards et al. 2004). As a result, the duration of this study (19972013) has yet to span a single generation time. Shortterm studies of longlived species are rarely adequate for understanding processes that occur over long periods (Callahan 1984). Accordingly, after the accumulation of thousands of tortoise captures and recaptures, including at burrow locations, over the longer term (approximately 20 years), it now appears that tortoises generally avoid the areas of greatest turbine and road concentration at the site (Lovich 2015b). As such, the initial promising shortterm effects on burrow location have not been realised in the longer term. Moreover, there has been limited recruitment into the adult population since 2000, even though Mesa tortoises are fecund (Lovich et al. 2015), clutches arefertile and hatchlings are encountered periodically. Continued research and monitoring will be necessary to determine the response of tortoises through multiple generations.;It is important to note that this research cannot test cause andeffect relationships because baseline data were not available to accurately measure the response of tortoises before and after construction of the wind farm. This underscores the critical need to undertake beforeafter controlimpact studies to assess the effects of wind farms on wildlife (Lovich  Ennen 2011 2013a).;Finally, it is also important to note that any effects on tortoises of Mesa wind farm could have been buffered by the generally productive conditions at the site that result in reliable germination of annual food plants in the spring. Additional wind farms have been proposed in more arid interior desert locations, including habitat designated as critical for the recovery of G. agassizii. Conclusions drawn from Mesa may not be directly transferrable to such localities.;Santos et al. (2010) examined the multivariate relationships among various measures of vertebrate species richness and environmental factors including the installation of wind farms in the Maro Mountains of northwest Portugal, at an average elevation of 1,000 m a.s.l. The climate of the region is near Mediterranean, with 1420 cm of precipitation annually, and plant communities are comprised primarily of pastures and heathlands shaped by grazing and recurrent fires.;From May 2004 to March 2007, 198 plots (250 x 250 m) were sampled for vertebrates using timeconstrained searches and hand collecting. Plots included both disturbed and undisturbed sites that were 02,000 m from the nearest turbine or associated structure. Studies were concurrent with the construction of four wind farms comprised of 27 monopole turbines (20042006) that were either 60 or 80 m tall. Six species of amphibians were encountered, including a toad (Bufo bufo), two frogs (Rana perezi and R. iberica) and three salamanders (Salamandra salamandra, Triturus boscai and Chioglossa lusitanica). The 11 species of reptiles collected