Habitat fragmentation is a landscapelevel phenomenon that occurs after habitat loss results in tracts of continuous habitat being broken into smaller, more isolated patches (Didham 2010). It is plausible this occurs within wind farms, primarily as a result of the installation of a network of access roads operating as barriers to free movement of species with low motility, especially some nonvolant invertebrate groups such as some beetles or molluscs (Elzay et al., Chapter 4), some small mammals (Helldin et al., Chapter 10), herpetofauna (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 5) and even some flora with very limited potential for propagule dispersal. In such cases, gene flow between subpopulations may be disrupted. Otherwise, fragmentation at a scale that may occur in a wind farm relative to that in the wider landscape as a result of roads, forestry andagriculture seems unlikely to be important for most species. This is not to say that habitat fragmentation is not operating in virtually every wind farm, at least at a microscale. Nevertheless, the effect of habitat fragmentation, including from barrier effects, remains virtually unstudied in wind farms.;Roads are built for vehicles in order to cope with the largescale movement of lorries, cranes, diggers and dumper trucks required during construction. The number of vehicle movements at this time may be considerable, with BLM (2005) estimating that 5,300 round trips of 29 tonne trucks (or 7,380 round trips of 21 tonne trucks) would be required to transport the 110,863 m3 of gravel needed for the roads at one site in the USA. This does not take into the movements of the heavy turbine construction vehicles themselves and the cars and vans of the extensive workforce. During operation, BLM (2005) describe vehicle movements as occasional, although these will probably be regular, often daily, in keeping with the small number of personnel needed to maintain an operational site. Different sites may, of course, have different needs.;Based on studies of the impacts of roads outside of wind farms, collision with vehicles in wind farms was thought to be an issue for both flying and crawling insects (Elzay et al., Chapter 4) and reptiles and amphibians (see Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6, Figure 6.4) although some birds and mammals may also be affected. However, losses of any group do not appear to have been quantified at any wind farm. Moreover, effects may not be limited to collision as Helldin et al. (Chapter 10) cite examples of studies of large herbivores in similar situations that showed avoidance of areas with roads even where vehicle movements were infrequent at 10 movements per day. The direct effects of roads are not always negative, as many animals and plants use quiet roads and tracks as conduits to readily move between habitat patches, especially where the undergrowth is dense as anyone who has been on a Bengal Tiger Panthera tigris tigris jeep safari in India will testify. The sides of roads may also be attractive to various fauna as they are often colonised by fodder, nectar and seedproducing plants such as grasses and annual herbs (as well as alien species  see below). Birds, bats and reptiles may be attracted to road edges to feed on insects accumulated on road verges and reptiles may be attracted to bask on warm surfaces. Attraction may, of course, lead to a risk of collision with any traffic using the road.