In general, however, raptors are generally not thought to be susceptible to disturbance or displacement as a result of being insensitive to risk, in keeping with their position at the top of the food chain with no natural predators. Species lower in the food chain have evolved visual systems geared to detecting risks from predators as well as finding food, shelter and mates. This may be at the root of their tendency to be wary of unfamiliar situations including a new, large imposing object(s) in their environment. Waterfowl (ducks and geese), wading birds and passerines are among the most riskaverse groups and often respond negatively to the presence of wind farms. Responses have often been measured as avoidance distance from turbines. Pooling results from many, especially unpublished, studies, Htker (Chapter 7) was able to show that median avoidance distances of birds typically range from 50 to 300 m, although some individual studies report values of up to 800 m. Small passerines appear to be less likely to display avoidance over larger distances, perhaps as they are less able to perceive the threat of turbines. Alternatively, this could be an artefact of the nature of the studies undertaken as most studies on passerines were conducted in the breeding season when avoidance distances were generally lower. In turn, it could be that in the faceof stiff competition for breeding territories, at least some birds cannot afford to be fussy and have to fill the suboptimal habitat if they are to breed at all. Increases in avoidance distance as turbine height increased were also noted for some sensitive waterfowl and waders. The reason for this remains unclear, but could conceivably relate to the preference by some species for open spaces without any structures that could conceal a perched raptor.;A key factor determining avoidance distance for birds temporarily resident in an area when breeding, on stopover or wintering is likely to be resource availability. Where resources are limited, birds will invariably tolerate various forms of human disturbance, including potentially any caused by wind farms, but may ultimately suffer fitness costs. Where resources are available elsewhere, birds may readily be displaced without significant cost (Gill et al. 2001). Individuals may thus respond differently according to resource availability. A particularly good example is the strong tendency for Barnacle Geese Branta leucopsis to avoid wind farms on their wintering grounds in Germany, which is not apparent when they stage in Sweden where food resources are more scarce (Percival 2005).;Where the avoidance distance is greater than half of the distance between turbines, 100 displacement would result and the abundance of birds within the wind farm should decline to zero. To the best of knowledge, this has not been demonstrated, including during the few multisite BACI studies that have been conducted. In multisite studies, the potential for high variability between sites may limit the ability to detect significant differences for even sensitive species. Even the most comprehensive studies (e.g. Pearce Higgins et al. 2012) recorded significant displacement for only three of the ten species studied. Of these, only Common Snipe Gallinago gallinago (Figure 11.4) and Eurasian Curlew Numenius arquata showed a decrease in density during construction, which persisted into operation in the longer term. In contrast, densities of Eurasian Stonechat Saxicola rubicola (Figure 11.5) and Eurasian Skylark actually increased during construction, perhaps as a result of beneficial habitat changes. It is also notable that no effect was demonstrated on European Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria, whereas in the singlesite study of Sansom et al. (2016) this species showed a significant decline in abundance during operation, which was consistent with behavioural avoidance of the turbines and not disturbance (by humans) alone. Clearly, some variation between studies may be expected.