A review of the existing literature was conducted through an internet search using Google Scholar and by a hand search of collected journals and books. Data from a former review (Htker 2008) were also reanalysed together with new data extracted from more recent literature. This chapter does not deal with avoidance rates as utilised in models to predict collision rates (Band et al. 2007), which measure the probability that a bird approaching arotor of a wind turbine decides not to fly through the swept area (see Chapter 13 for a discussion of this topic).;The review incorporated 26 BACI and 26 GI studies. In addition, many more studies, in particular those published as grey literature, just described bird numbers or bird densities in relation to wind farms but failed to give evidence of wind farms being the only or at least a significant cause of the observed effects. Thus, as previously documented by Stewart et al. (2007), there would appear to be relatively few studies clearly providing evidence for or against the displacement of birds by wind farms in their own right, even after many years of wind energy development.;However, in this review, to capitalise on those numerous studies that were not able to statistically prove the existence or non existence of wind farm effects on birds owing to their design, at least some basic information was extracted, such as the direction of the observed effect regardless of its statistical significance and the study design. For each study and each species in the study, effects of wind farms were termed negative if there were fewer birds after the construction of a wind farm than before or if the density of birds was less within, or in close vicinity to, the wind farm compared to plots farther away from wind farms, or if avoidance behaviour was directly observed. Otherwise, effects were termed positive. The few neutral results with no change resulting from the wind farm were classified as positive to avoid any false association of wind energy with negative impacts. To provide an overview for as many bird groups and species as possible, as in a previous study (Htker 2008), all available results were included in the analysis. No distinction was made between results derived from systematic surveys and those based on only a few casual observations.;The disadvantage of using all available studies is that in statistical terms, casual observations are given equal weight to extensive research. It cannot be ruled out that extreme observations have been recorded more frequently than less spectacular events. Also, additional factors, which could have been important in individual cases, may not have been fully considered. However, the advantage of this method is that the number of studies included in the analysis is large and therefore the results are less dependent on single, wellresearched, but possibly atypical, studies. With a large number of studies, there is a greater chance that confounding factors may cancel each other out. To check the reliability of the results, the analysis was repeated with a subset of data gained in studies that used BACI or GI designs.