Based on these results, Pronghorn on winter range did not respond negatively to the Dunlap Ranch wind farm as has been documented for other ungulate populations exposed to oil and gas development. The lack of avoidance behaviour and lack of increased movement rates observed may be a result of several factors. First, Pronghorn may be more adaptable or tolerant to wind energy development than other ungulate species. Secondly, Pronghorn did not need to rely solely on the Dunlap Ranch for winter range, as the average home range size was nearly five times larger than the wind farm. Therefore, homeranges not entirely saturated by wind farm infrastructure may not invoke the higher stress levels that provoke avoidance responses in Pronghorn. Lastly, human activity at the Dunlap Ranch may not have been high enough to facilitate an avoidance response by Pronghorn. Traffic rates measured at the Dunlap Ranch in winter (1.81.9 traffic detectionsday) were lower than rates documented in an oil and gas field during winter in southwest Wyoming, where Mule Deer avoided wells with elevated levels of traffic (Sawyer et al. 2009). Pronghorn may respond negatively to larger wind farms with higher levels of human activity (i.e. increased traffic rates and longer construction periods) than those documented at the Dunlap Ranch. However, Pronghorn populations are distinct and their behaviour is a direct result of unique environmental and anthropogenic conditions characterising their habitats. As a result, caution should be applied in extrapolating any of these results to other Pronghorn populations exposed to larger scale wind farms.;Anthropogenic noise may cause stress and interfere with the auditory communication of terrestrial mammals (Pater et al. 2009), and the effects of turbine noise may be in line with those shown for songbirds (e.g. Leddy et al. 1999). In one of the few studies on the response of mammals to turbine noise, California Ground Squirrels were shown to be more vigilant and react more quickly to alarm calls in areas with wind turbines than in control areas (Rabin et al. 2006). While noise pollution may mask alarm calls, it may also make hunting more difficult for predators using auditory cues (Siemers  Schaub 2011). Thus, noise pollution may affect predatorprey interactions in a complex manner.;Migrating birds have been shown to avoid wind turbines from a distance of up to 13 km (Kahlert et al. 2004 Pettersson 2005 Granr et al. 2013), suggesting a visual response to the turbines. To the authors knowledge, there are no studies of similar responses for terrestrial mammals, although it can be argued that large mammals in open habitats would have similar potential to spot turbines from large distances. Studies of Reindeer and Caribou (also R. tarandus) in open landscapes suggest that they avoid roads and large power