20year lifespan of a wind farm, turbines require major maintenance a minimum of two or three times per year (Ardente et al. 2008). However, roads in wind farms require a high level of use to successfully operate and maintain energy production. New roads built to construct and maintain wind farms also often open up new lands to public use, further increasing the load of pollution and dust on the surrounding landscape.;Terrestrial invertebrate herbivores and pollinators may acquire chemical pollutants from roadside plants (Ernst  BastCramer 1980), and predators, including other invertebrates, may acquire pollutants from lower trophic levels. Many invertebrate taxa accumulate heavy metals such as lead and zinc from soil (e.g. Heikens et al. 2001), and can subsequently deliver these toxins to other invertebrates, birds, mammals and reptiles at higher trophic levels. For example, lead contamination of soils around roads is common and can extend hundreds of metres from the road (Viard et al. 2004). Plants growing on these contaminated roadsides can have elevated lead in their stalks, leaves, flowers, nectar and pollen (e.g. Ernst  BastCramer 1980). Invertebrate herbivores and pollinators visiting these plants become contaminated themselves (Muskett  Jones 1980), potentially leading to biomagnification as the toxin moves to higher trophic levels (Ernst  BastCramer 1980).;Road use can also lead to excessive production of dust, especially on gravel roads. Dust can have diverse effects on invertebrates, mediated primarily via effects on the resources on which invertebrates depend. Fugitive dust carries nutrients, heavy metals, salts and sediment though the air, all of which can affect nearby vegetation by clogging stamens and stomata, thereby disrupting pollination and photosynthesis, altering the chemical composition of water and soil, and increasing leaf temperature and therefore transpiration (Farmer 1993 Hirano et al. 1995 Field et al. 2009). These effects of fugitive dust on vegetation may subsequently impact invertebrates that forage, nest and mate on these plants. Fugitive dust also decreases the albedo of snow and ice, advancing the timing of snowmelt (Field et al. 2009), changes in which can shift plant phenology (Petraglia et al. 2014), potentially leading to phenological mismatch between invertebrate herbivores and pollinators (Thackeray et al. 2010).