(Fluckiger et al. 1982 Farmer 1993). Other effects of dust from urban roads found in different species are reduced fruit set, leaf growth and starch production increased necrosis, absorption and insolation and blocked stomata.;In relation to the physical blocking of stomata, Krajickova and Mejstrik (1984) noted that stomatal diameter is 812 m for a range of crops (e.g. Maize Zea mays, Pea Pisum sativum, Barley Hordeum distichon), implying that particle size is critical if dust is to impair stomatal functions. For unpaved roads, Everett (1980) found that there was a rapid decline in particle size in the first 8 m from the road with a loss of particles greater than 50 m in diameter. At 30 m a further decline took place, this time in particles greater than 20 m. Similarly, Tamm and Troedsson (1955) found that beyond 20 m from an unpaved road only fine silts seemed to be deposited. From such studies, it would appear that some species may be affected more than others, depending on their stomatal size and relative to their position along a gradient from the source of dust. It is therefore not inconceivable that sufficient dust loading may drive shifts in vegetation communities alongside the roads in wind farms, thus delivering a permanent effect during the operational lifetime of the wind farm.;Despite the potential for significant effects, dust mobilisation and deposition is usually considered to be a minor problem, partly as any effects of dust do not tend to manifest as an obvious visual impact. Moreover, primarily because very specific and complex studies are required to demonstrate its full effects on vegetation, dust remains poorly assessed. For example, only 5 of the 36 of the EIA studies reviewed raised the possibility of an effect. To date, the authors are unaware of specific studies or monitoring performed on dust mobilisation and deposition in relation to wind farms. This belies the fact that in the construction phase at least, any potential effect could be mitigated through periodic water spraying on unpaved gravel roads, especially in the dry season.;Invasive species such as Australian Acacia spp. (Gibson et al. 2011 Le Maitre et al. 2011) are characterised by their ability to rapidly increase abundance and distribution, typically through the production of large numbers of seeds and other propagules, with the potential to modify the character, condition, form or nature of the invaded ecosystems, causing longlasting changes (Richardson et al. 2000). According to Delivering Alien Invasive Species Inventories for Europe (DAISIE 2008), 6,658 terrestrial plant species have been