Differences in the sensory systems used by bats and birdshave farreaching consequences on when and how they are killed at turbines. Although bats have excellent vision, the majority (other than Old World fruit and nectarfeeders) use echolocation for prey detection and shortrange detection of obstacles. Migratory species have particularly good visual acuity and may use vision for longer distance detection of objects (Boonman et al. 2013 Eklf et al. 2014). Bats are strictly nocturnal, making it difficult to observe their behaviours at or near turbines, and bat fatalities occur only at night. In contrast, birds orient over short distances using vision and most are primarily diurnal, making behavioural observations of their reactions to turbines easier. However, many migratory birds move at night and observations of this behaviour are also difficult. Bird fatalities occur during both the day and night.;Nightflying birds commonly collide with tall humanmade structures such as buildings and communication towers, and collectively these represent a large number of fatalities. For example, fatalities have been estimated at 6.8 million birds per year at communication towers in the USA and Canada (Longcore et al. 2012) and 25 million birds per year at windows across Canada (Machtans et al. 2013). It may be assumed that some bird fatalities, especially at night or when visibility is poor (e.g. in fog), are caused by collisions with turbine towers or nonmoving blades. Although there are reports of bats colliding with tall structures, these are much rarer events (e.g. Crawford  Baker 1981), presumably because of the use of echolocation. To the best of the authors knowledge, there are no reports of bats colliding with turbine towers or nonmoving blades (Arnett et al. 2008), and no such collisions were detected in studies using thermal imaging cameras to observe the behaviour of bats at turbines (Horn et al. 2008 Cryan et al. 2014).;The reaction of birds to wind turbines has been observed both visually and via radar, especially with regard to offshore wind farms. In some cases (e.g. Larsen  Guillemette 2007 Plonczkier  Simms 2012 R. Larkin, personal communication 2015), but not all (e.g. Dahl et al. 2013), birds react to and turn away from wind turbines from considerable distances (hundreds of metres). Visual observations of bats reacting to turbines are more difficult because bats are strictly nocturnal. Using thermal imaging, some studies indicate that at close range, bats may be attracted to turbines (Horn et al. 2008