Several authors, such as Orloff and Flannery (1992), Drewitt and Langston (2006) and Htker et al. (2006), suggested that mortality rate was not related to the abundance of a particular species, but rather was linked to the degree of risk aversion or fear displayed. Species that were less afraid of wind farms, such as American Kestrel, Redtailed Hawk, Golden Eagles, gulls and starlings, were more likely to be collision victims than species that avoided wind farms by flying around them, such as Turkey Vulture Cathartes aura, geese and waders. The exception was members of the Crow family, which are generally not afraid of wind farms, but also rarely getkilled.;In support of this general view, de Lucas et al. (2008) showed that Griffon Vulture was the species that most frequently collided with wind turbines at Tarifa in southern Spain (Figure 8.4), but this was not associated with its abundance in the study area. Moreover, in a longterm study in Tasmania, Hull et al. (2013) detected a poor relationship between all bird abundance onsite and collisions with turbines. In the case of raptors, only four species from a total of nine represented at the wind farms were involved in collisions. The authors classified species according to their collision risk, with 94 of species in the highrisk group being part of distinctive families or superfamilies, or linked to foraging strategies or zones. Hull et al. (2013) also highlighted the Shorttailed Shearwater Puffinus tenuirostris as the species most frequently colliding, but that was not observed during daytime utilisation surveys. This was presumably because this species comes ashore at night to access its nesting burrows. The potential issue of general utilisation surveys not recording species at risk as a result of speciesspecific activity patterns or unequal distribution or abundance is discussed further in Chapter 11 in this volume.;In contrast, other studies have detected the opposite pattern, including on the same or similar species. For example, Barrios and Rodrguez (2004 2007) detected a strong relationship between bird density and collision rate, finding more dead Griffon Vultures in winter when the resident population increased as a result of wintering individuals. A similar pattern was also noted for Common Kestrel, which was a more frequent victim in summer during the postfledging period (and thus linked to the abundance of juveniles see Morphology and behaviour, above). Moreover, Everaert and Stienen (2007) reported a significant correlation between the number of breeding pairs of the three species of terns studied, Common, Sandwich and Little Terns, and the number of collision fatalities over a fiveyear period (20012005 inclusive). Early in the breeding season, birds avoided the turbines, but later in the season, with the imperative to provision chicks, they flew by the most direct route, which increased the number of collisions with the turbines.;Seasonality in the frequency of collision has been shown by a number of studies. For example, Nelson and Curry (1995) and Osborn et al. (1998 2000) showed a positive relationship between bird abundance and collision rate and over the seasons, finding that the rates were lowest in winter, increased in spring, remained similar in summer and decreased in autumn (fall), and concluded