Vision is the primary sense used by birds to gain information about their environment (Martin 2011). In visibility simulations in the laboratory, Hodos (2003) and Hodos et al. (2000) showed that whena bird approaches a rotating blade, the retinal image of the blade, which is the information that is transmitted to the animals brain, increases in velocity until it is moving so rapidly that the retina cannot keep up with it. At this point, the retinal image of the moving blade becomes a transparent blur that the bird probably interprets as a safe area to fly through. This phenomenon of motion smear is also well known in human visual perception. McIsaac (2000) evaluated several bladepainting patterns aimed at increasing turbine visibility in relation to motion smear in some light conditions for American Kestrel Falco sparverius. A tentative recommendation of one with squarewave, black and white bands that run across the blade was provided. However, the implementation of these results may be limited because other variables, such as species flight characteristics and wind conditions, must also be taken into account.;Birds can visually detect wavelengths outside the range of human vision, including the ultraviolet (UV) spectrum, and this could assist them in several activities (Young et al. 2003b). Some researchers, such as Chen et al. (2015), have even suggested that birds may be more sensitive to UV light than to visible light, although to date no study has shown whether birds can detect artificial objects painted with UV reflective paint more easily than objects with a conventional covering. Young et al. (2003b) studied a wind plant during three phases of construction to test this theory but found that there were no differences in use, mortality or risk between the two turbine types. Their conclusions were, however, based on professional judgement instead of statistical testing. It may be that although birds can see light in the UV range, objects reflecting or emitting UV light are simply viewed as a different colour to the avian eye.;In general, birds preferentially use highresolution lateral vision to detect conspecifics, foraging opportunities and predators compared to their frontal vision, which has quite restricted functions. Both types of vision are thus used for specific tasks and are not interchangeable in their function. Birds such as Griffon Vulture, Shorttoed Eagle, cranes and bustards have a small binocular vision and large blind areas above, below and behind the head (Martin et al. 2012). Such species are blind in the direction of travel and unable to detect a hazard ahead of them, making them more vulnerable to collision with wind turbines (Martin  Shaw 2010). As a result, Martin (2011) suggested that the diversion or distraction of birds from their flight path on a collision course with a turbine could be of more value than making turbines more