New Zealand Falcon Falco novaeseelandie could be affected by mortality in the wind farms. The first Whitetailed Eagles to collide with turbines were recorded by Shiraki and Kitano (2011) in Hokkaido in the north of Japan, and Zimmerling et al. (2013) analysed all the available data on bird mortality from wind farms in Canada for the first time.;In accordance with the burgeoning number of studies around the world, several authors have attempted to review the groups and species affected, as well as attempting to quantify the collision rate, typically as the number of collisions per turbine per year, but also as number of collisions per megawatt of electricity per year (Langston  Pullan 2003 Drewitt  Langston 2006 2008 Kunz et al. 2007 Stewart et al. 2007 Htker 2008 Marques et al. 2014). Other studies reviewed all the information about bird collisions with wind turbines in a particular country (Loss et al. 2013) or for a particular group of species (Erickson et al. 2014) to obtain estimated mortality rates. In turn, this has led to a number of attempts to place mortality of birds at wind farms in context with other potential sources of anthropogenic causes of mortality, such as collision with power lines, buildings, communication towers or even traffic (Calvert et al. 2013 Erickson et al. 2014), and mortality linked to other forms of energy (Sovacool 2009 2013). As stated by Bevanger (1994), birds are masters of the air but their superiority in the air has been influenced by humanmade constraints.;The goal of this chapter is to summarise the knowledge on bird collisions at wind farms around the world. The information presented builds on previous reviews, adding new information on more species, particularly following the recent international symposia and further scientific papers, reports and conference proceedings. However, the review has not been conducted in a systematic or an exhaustive manner and the reader is encouraged to use a search engine such as Web of Science, Google Scholar or PubMed to find new information and to undertake a more complete appraisal of the range of species that fall victim to collision, and especially the variation in collision rate by turbine and output (MW).