In general, birds preferentially use highresolution lateral vision to detect conspecifics, foraging opportunities and predators compared to their frontal vision, which has quite restricted functions. Both types of vision are thus used for specific tasks and are not interchangeable in their function. Birds such as Griffon Vulture, Shorttoed Eagle, cranes and bustards have a small binocular vision and large blind areas above, below and behind the head (Martin et al. 2012). Such species are blind in the direction of travel and unable to detect a hazard ahead of them, making them more vulnerable to collision with wind turbines (Martin  Shaw 2010). As a result, Martin (2011) suggested that the diversion or distraction of birds from their flight path on a collision course with a turbine could be of more value than making turbines moreconspicuous.;Behavioural audibility curves have been collected for several species of birds, and these data were fitted with a polynomial function to provide a continuous curve describing the minimum audible sound pressure over the range of hearing for a particular species (Dooling  Lohr 2000). Birds hear best at frequencies between about 1 and 5 kHz, close to the range of human hearing. This homogeneous picture of avian hearing has some wellknown exceptions, such as Common Pigeon Columba livia, which has a unusual auditory sensitivity to very lowfrequency sounds, and Barn Owl Tyto alba and Great Horned Owl Bubo virginianus, which have an absolute auditory sensitivity to extremely lowfrequency sounds. Otherwise, the general restriction to a highfrequency hearing range in birds makes it impossible to design an acoustic deterrent for them that is inaudible to humans.;In general, acoustic deterrents devices are not effective because birds may habituate to them and eventually ignore them completely. For the turbines in the APWRA monitored by Dooling (2002), the movement of the blades through the air had the effect of increasing the sound pressure level more or less equally across the sound spectrum. Broadspectrum blade noise, which is similar in form to wind noise as a predominantly lowfrequency sound below 12 kHz, simply adds to the background noise fairly evenly across the spectrum. So the addition of a defect, adding to the overall sound pressure level, may help birds to hear the blades. Dooling (2002) therefore recommended placing whistles on the blades of turbines with a known history of fatalities. However, no further experimentation on this topic has seemingly been conducted.;Several authors, such as Orloff and Flannery (1992), Drewitt and Langston (2006) and Htker et al. (2006), suggested that mortality rate was not related to the abundance of a particular species, but rather was linked to the degree of risk aversion or fear displayed. Species that were less afraid of wind farms, such as American Kestrel, Redtailed Hawk, Golden Eagles, gulls and starlings, were more likely to be collision victims than species that avoided wind farms by flying around them, such as Turkey Vulture Cathartes aura, geese and waders. The exception was members of the Crow family, which are generally not afraid of wind farms, but also rarely get