In addition to renewables targets and incentives such as green tariffs, the GWEC and Greenpeace International (2014), together with Zindler (2015), report that in an increasing number of worldmarkets, wind power is the lowest cost option when adding new generation capacity to the electricity grid. As a result, wind power has now firmly established itself as a mainstream option for new electrical generation. Yet despite the rapid deployment of onshore wind, there are still a number of permitting barriers. These relate to potential impacts on birds, bats and other wildlife, and social concerns such as the visual and cultural setting of wind farms and their performance and value. This has led to an application refusal rate of approximately 50 per year in the UK between 2013 and 2014 (RenewableUK 2014b 2015b). While many of the refusals relate to concerns over impacts to local communities, wind farms do present a number of potential impacts to different wildlife taxa which may contribute to delays in permitting or refusal. In brief, key impacts during construction and decommissioning include direct and indirect impacts associated with displacement of wildlife or their prey from construction noise and activity, habitat modification from installation of the wind turbines, access roads and other infrastructure, and habitat loss resulting from, for example, the removal of hedgerows and trees. During operation, key concerns relate to the collision risk to birds and bats, or their displacement if they avoid the wind farm and its surrounding area owing to turbine operation and maintenance or visitor disturbance. Displacement can include barrier effects in which birds are deterred from using their normal routes to feeding or roosting grounds. For reviews, see Htker et al. (2006), Arnett et al. (2007), May and Bevanger (2011), Rydell et al. (2012), Arnett and Baerwald (2013) and Gove et al. (2013).;It is predicted that wind power could reach nearly 2 million MW by 2030, equating to approximately 19 of global electricity requirements and a saving of over 3 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions annually (GWEC 2014). To achieve this, there needs to be continued research and development into wind power technology, supported by global and national policies. In addition, both governments and wind farm developers need to work together to reduce continued concerns over the potential environmental and social barriers.