Reptiles and amphibians are sensitive to light pollution (Perry et al. 2008), and wind farms are known to produce light flicker (sunlight reflecting off spinning blades), shadow flicker (spinning blades interrupting sunlight) and flashing lights on tall turbine towers to warn aircraft. However, the direct impacts of lightpollution produced by wind energy facilities on amphibian and reptiles have not been fully studied (Lovich  Ennen 2013a). In humans, turbineproduced light flicker is known to cause seizures (Harding et al. 2008) and, therefore, the impacts of light flicker may be an understudied, detrimental phenomenon on wildlife. When hunting, raptorial birds may cast shadows and, as common prey of such birds, reptiles and amphibians have evolved behavioural responses to these shadows. For example, sudden shadowing increases the probability of fleeing in the lizards Sceloporus virgatus, S. jarrovii and Urosaurus ornatus (Cooper 2009).;The effect of electromagnetic pollution (EMP), such as low frequency radiation, upon wildlife, including herpetofauna, is another previously understudied field that is of growing interest. One source of EMP is the generation of electromagnetic fields as electricity passes through cables. In addition, current flowing through buried highvoltage cables produces heat, but the effects on herpetofauna are unknown. There is a lack of consensus regarding the effects of EMP exposure on wildlife, with some authors (e.g. Petersen  Malm 2006) suggesting that it is benign and others reporting potentially harmful effects upon behaviour (Gill et al. 2012) and on the nervous, cardiovascular, reproductive and immune systems (Balmori 2009). EMP has increased exponentially since the 1990s, in large part as a result of the growing and complex network of electrical distribution networks (the grid) and cellular phone towers, and has been suggested as an insidious factor in amphibian declines (Balmori 2006) through its effects on development and mortality rates (Balmori 2010). Response to, or the use of, electromagnetic fields is not uncommon in herpetofauna (e.g. Nishimura et al. 2010), and EMP could affect the behaviour of those species that utilise the earths magnetic field for orientation and migration. For example, hatchling Loggerhead Sea Turtles Caretta caretta exposed to pulsed magnetic fields had difficulty orientating towards the offshore migratory direction (Irwin  Lohmann 2005).;Wind farms consist of not only a conspicuous surface infrastructure, but also a complex network of buried cables to transmit electrical energy from turbines into the grid. The underground network of cables produces heat, which is diffused through the soil and measured as soil thermal resistivity. This heat