Climatic variables are very important to the ecology of ectothermic reptiles and amphibians, providing considerablepotential for wind farm effects on these animals. In ectotherms, physiological, behavioural, performance and metabolic functions are all largely controlled by temperature, with many functions having evolved within a very narrow temperature range. Temperaturedependent sex determination is common among reptiles (Vitt  Caldwell 2009) and temperaturebased sex reversal occurs in amphibians (Dournon et al. 1990). Thus, unnaturally elevated temperatures in a given area from wind farms in combination with climate change could adversely affect reptile and amphibian populations by altering sex ratios (Hulin et al. 2009). For example, Janzen (1994) suggested that a temperature increase of less than 2C could skew sex ratios towards males and affect the population demography of the Painted Turtle Chrysemys picta. Other species may be similarly sensitive to small changes in temperature that affect sex ratios (Hulin et al. 2009).;The importance of water for most amphibians cannot be overstated as they are dependent on it for reproduction (Wells 2007), and soil moisture may explain local amphibian distribution (Wyman 1988). Amphibian declines have been attributed to droughts and deluges (reviewed by Walls et al. 2013), with desiccation known to be a serious issue for salamanders (Jaeger 1980). In addition, the reproductive mode diversity of amphibians is related to humidity levels in a particular region, whereas regions with lower humidity levels support only specialised reproductive modes resistant to desiccation (da Silva et al. 2012). Overall, any factors that reduce alter natural temperature, humidity or precipitation have the potential to affect reptiles and amphibians.;An unnatural input of resources into a system can cause trophic cascades through decoupling of predatorprey relationships. There is evidence that such subsidies can enhance predator abundance above carrying capacity, which eventually suppresses natural resources, causing trophic cascades (Polis et al. 1997). Wind farms are known to kill large numbers of birds and bats globally (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Arnett et al. 2008) and the removal of carcasses by scavengers is well documented (Smallwood 2013). Hypothetically, an increase in bird and bat carcasses could lead to an increased abundance or visitation of mesocarnivores within a wind farm, which could suppress reptiles and amphibians through preyswitching when other food sources are scarce (Lovich et al. 2014c). The authors are not aware of any study that has investigated possible predator attraction in wind farms and its