The study of PearceHiggins et al. (2012) also provides an example of a species, Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scotica (a UK endemic subspecies of the Willow Ptarmigan in Box 11.1), that recovered in the longer term, indicative of habituation, a phenomenon defined as a form of learning by an individual that ceases to respond to a stimulus after repeated exposure (see Htker, Chapter 7). In the absence of individual recognition, habituation cannot be conclusively demonstrated, although it may be strongly implied for longlived species when what appears to be the same individuals use the same area. Increasing use of an area over time could also illustrate a cultural change in the population, driven perhaps by the progeny of birds that showed more tolerance. Irrespective of whether it is habituation or some other factor that is behind the recovery of bird populations within a wind farm over time, the fact that they recover at all means that displacement is often seen as unimportant at least for the population using the area, if not the individuals actually involved.;Htker (Chapter 7) concluded that very few studies on birds have demonstrated that wind farms affect reproductive output and survival as crucial components of individual fitness. An exception is the lower breeding success of Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla within and up to 500 m of a wind farm in Norway (Dahl et al. 2012). For mammals, the study of lvares et al. (Chapter 10, Box 10.1) showed evidence of reproduction being interrupted in two packs of Iberian Wolves Canis lupus signatus during construction of two separate wind farm sites, with both packs shifting denning sites away from the operational sites. In contrast, survival of female Greater Prairie Chickens Tympanuchus cupido was positively affected by wind farm development, perhaps because this offered predator free space from mammalian carnivores avoiding the site (Winder et al. 2014).;Barrier effects have also not been shown to impact individual fitness. For a migratory species, Masden et al. (2009) calculated that small deviations around sites were inexpensive in energetic terms especially as these are undertaken during annual migration. In a further modelling study on a range of breeding seabirds undertaking regular commuting flights, Masden et al. (2010) suggested that energetic costs were more important for those species with relatively high energetic costs of flight resulting from high wing loading. Importantly, costs of extra flight appeared much lower than that imposed by low food abundance or adverse weather conditions. Empirical studies of real situations, preferably with known