The impacts generated by the implementation of a wind farm are the result of specific activities that are performed in the course of the construction andor operation phases of the project. Therefore, these actions need to be identified at an early stage ofthe impact assessment, leading to an accurate analysis. These activities are described in Box 3.1.;A detailed analysis of the impact on endangered species and vegetation is required. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is an important tool to identify the type, scale and likelihood of environmental impacts of a project as well as potential measures to minimise or avoid harm to the habitats or species of interest. A negative impact occurs when an action results in damage to or decrease in the quality of some environmental parameter. It is possible to distinguish two types of impact (1) a direct impact from a simple cause and effect, such as habitat loss and destruction and (2) an indirect impact resulting from a secondary reaction or part of a chain reaction, perhaps through trophic levels, such as may occur through the introduction of a novel competitor or predator (e.g. a grazer).;Wind farms may conceivably produce an array of short, medium or longterm negative impacts. Whether the identified impacts occur and what the most significant real impacts are should be determined by the results of ecological monitoring before, during and after development. An optimised EIA process applies specific predictions and impact analyses to existing biological communities at the project site and may trigger actions to conserve flora (Bio3 2010). The EIA process allows the early identification of the most important natural features in the area of implementation of a new wind farm. This will allow developers to avoid affecting these natural assets, or at least to minimise possible impacts. Meticulous work should be done to achieve this goal, especially when the main concerns are related to important, and often inconspicuous, plant species (Figure 3.3). Despite the importance of vegetation, impacts on plant communities are commonly considered to be a minor problem compared to those on other groups, such as birds or bats (Silva et al. 2011). Nevertheless, significant impacts can be triggered by construction activities, especially where these have led to the removal of vegetation (deforestation) (Box 3.1). In other words, effects can persist long after the cessation of the original action. One of the main issues that make it difficult to address the occurrence and magnitude of possible impacts on flora and vegetation is a simple lack of knowledge, not only of the distribution and abundance of important species in the specific habitat location but also about ecology, phenology and ecological processes. Another difficulty relates to the fact that in EIA studies it is not always possible to conduct fieldwork in a favourable season that allows the identification of some species under study. For example, some