All in all, the risks and benefits of wind farm roads for any wildlife taxon does not appear to be have been subject to rigorous study. This could imply that the overall effect is generally thoughtunlikely to be significant and negative, or it could be that it is thought that detrimental effects can be avoided through mitigation or even simply by good practice (see Scottish Renewables et al. 2015). However, it is not clear to what extent monitoring is conducted to prove that good practice or mitigation has been effective, as this information does not appear to have made it to the peerreviewed literature. A good case in point is the issue of fugitive dust (dust that becomes airborne from a road surface as a vehicle passes  see Silva  Passos, Chapter 3, Figure 3.5) as well as other pollutants including tailpipe emissions (e.g. CO, SO2 , NOx and particulate matter) and a wide range of hazardous materials associated with a wind farm project (e.g. fuel, propane, lubricating fluids, glycolbased antifreeze, solvents, paints, explosives and pesticides  see BLM 2005 for an excellent summary) that have the potential to escape into the environment with direct and indirect (accumulation through the food chain) consequences. As suggested by Silva  Passos (Chapter 3) fugitive dust may be a significant issue by interfering with plant photosynthesis, growth and reproduction, with the potential to change plant community structure and composition and affect invertebrates, and thus affect all other trophic levels. Respiratory impairment for wildlife is also thought to be a potential problem. The scale of the issue of fugitive dust is illustrated by one example presented by BLM (2005) where one developer intended to use 450,000 litres of water per day to control dust at a large 1,821 ha site. In this case the water was to be trucked to site, which would seemingly have exacerbated the problem. Obviously, the scale of the issue of fugitive dust is influenced by the nature of the substrate, with fine friable soils in arid landscapes being the most problematic.;There is much concern over invasive alien plants as these may dominate and radically change natural vegetation communities (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3) and thus all other trophic levels from invertebrates through to reptiles and amphibians, birds and mammals. In Britain, the highly invasive Japanese Knotweed Fallopia japonica is seen to be a major problem for potential introduction to wind farms, as are various Acacia species in the Mediterranean (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3). In the USA, Sahara Mustard Brassica tournefortii has proved to be an issue in at least one wind farm (see Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6, Figure 6.5). Although any nonnative plant may be undesirable, there is probably an important distinction between invasive aliens and less pervasive