Wind farms consist of not only a conspicuous surface infrastructure, but also a complex network of buried cables to transmit electrical energy from turbines into the grid. The underground network of cables produces heat, which is diffused through the soil and measured as soil thermal resistivity. This heathas the potential to impact the soil microclimate by significantly altering temperatures and soil moisture throughout the wind farm (Parmar  Steinmanis 2003). Soil composition and how the trenches for cables are backfilled determine how heat dissipates through the soil, and where this does not occur adequately excessive heat may result in cable failure. As noted below (in Microclimate and macroclimate effects), temperature and moisture are vital to herpetofauna ecology, physiology and behaviour. For example, if reptile eggs are laid near cables they may be exposed to lethal incubation temperatures or temperatures that cause alteration of hatchling sex ratios for species with environmental sex determination. No studies were found that directly assessed the impact on herpetofauna of heat from buried cables in wind farms.;Large wind farms can influence climate in two ways. First, any habitat alteration related to the facility, such as vegetation removal, infrastructure construction and soil disturbance that changes plant composition, will result in a different microclimate composition, as the two are linked (Leichty et al. 1992 Keenan  Kimmins 1993 Chen et al. 1999). In general, vegetation removal increases ground temperature and evaporation rates, which can have negative effects on various life stages of amphibian species (Semlitsch et al. 2009). In addition, vegetation removal could lead to reductions of leaf litter (Hughes  Fahey 1994) and its associated invertebrates (Seastedt  Crossley 1981), which are an important food resource for many reptiles and amphibians.;Secondly, operational utilityscale wind farms can modify climate at several different scales. At the local scale, microclimate alterations may be caused by enhanced vertical mixing of air through blade turbulence (Baidya Roy  Traiteur 2010 Baidya Roy 2011 WalshThomas et al. 2012), which can alter nearsurface air temperatures as far away as 1823 km downwind of the facility. Over a nineyear period, Zhou et al. (2013) reported a nocturnal warming effect (0.310.70C) at wind farms in westcentral Texas, which was more pronounced in summer. At the larger regional scale, Abbasi and Abbasi (2000) suggested that wind farms can alter wind, precipitation and evaporation patterns, and soil moisture. Modelling has suggested that wind farms could even alter global temperatures, precipitation and cloud distributions (Keith et al. 2004 Wang  Prinn 2010).