There have been some comprehensive studies about the indirect effects of wind farms on habitats, for example, in plant diversity. Of importance is the study by Fraga et al. (2008) on the effects of wind farms on the plant species and vegetation diversity of blanket bog on summits and slopes in the Xistral Mountains (northwest Spain), where priority habitats exist (EU Habitats Directive, code 7130 blanket bog). The original surveyed area was mainly covered by characteristic communities, which are endemic to the Xistral Mountains and usually form very homogeneous vegetation. However, alteration to the vegetation occurred within a very shortperiod (Topi  Stani 2006 Walker  Preston 2006 in Fraga et al. 2008), with significantly lower  diversity (differences in diversity in sites or habitats at a more local scale) and higher  diversity (differences in diversity between habitats or communities) in impacted areas compared to nonimpacted areas, even 9 years after construction. They also indicated a link between the spread of synanthropic species and wind farms, which was confirmed, from a qualitative perspective, by the greater community heterogeneity found in altered patches. In the areas altered by the construction of wind farm, new communities were observed.;The consequences in plant diversity alteration are widereaching as changes in biodiversity can influence ecosystem processes. There has been substantial debate over both the form of the relationship between species richness and ecosystem processes and the mechanisms underlying these relationships. Theoretically, rates of ecosystem processes may increase linearly with species richness if all species contribute substantially and in unique ways to a given process, that is, have complementary niches (Chapim et al. 2000).;The movement of machinery and vehicles in the construction phase and for the purposes of maintenance of individual turbines and associated infrastructure, such as substations, throughout the operational life of the wind farm causes the disturbance of dust, which will consequently accumulate on the surrounding vegetation. The intensity of dust mobilisation during the construction phase is naturally higher than in the operation phase, but may still be intense at particular times in the latter. Wind farms typically contain a network of unpaved gravel roads to provide access (Figure 3.5). The nature of the ground conditions (e.g. substrate type) and climatic conditions (e.g. hot and dry in the Mediterranean or cool and wet in northern Europe) will have a large effect on the issue of dust.