It is obvious that even a few collisions of a kselected longlived species such as a large raptor could result in a significant increase in mortality rate and an effect on the population, compared to the equivalent number of collisions of an rselected songbird (Lucas  Perrow, Chapter 8). But even for raptors, where basic parameters are generally reasonably well understood, a number of outcomes may be suggested by the different techniques used. Carrete et al. (2009), for example, suggested that the generally declining population of Egyptian Vulture Neophron percnopterus in Spain was decreasing faster in areas with wind farms, suggesting a significant increase in extinction risk. But, a reanalysis of population viability by GarcaRipolls  LpezLpez (2011) concluded that the effect of wind farms was lower than predicted, although it confirmed that any effect on survival was more important than any on fecundity. The same study reached a similar conclusion for Griffon Vulture, which at least fits with the population trends reported by Martin et al. (Chapter 8, Box 8.2), which do not reflect the additional mortality from collision with wind turbines. A decline in collision rate over time was attributed to the beneficial effect of mitigation measures. It is noteworthy, however, that a similar decline in collision rate of bats over time in the absence of mitigation was recorded by Barclay et al. (Chapter 9, Figure 9.5) for a number of sites in Canada, implying that the underlying populations of the species involved were in decline. That is, unless bats and perhaps vultures have learned to avoid turbines, or perhaps the fraction of the population that was more reckless has been eliminated thereby also removing any genetic expression of this tendency from futuregenerations.;Whatever the case, the point is made that it may not be immediately obvious that even a vulnerable species suffering what appears to a relatively high mortality rate will invariably decline as populations are generally buffered in a number of ways. To date, there appear to be very few examples of a clear effect of a wind farm at a population scale. The best example appears to be that of Whitetailed Eagle on Smla (Dahl, Chapter 8, Box 8.4). Here, the highdensity subpopulation of 1012 pairs of eagles that formerly bred in what became the wind farm has been reduced to four pairs over time. Longterm study of survival rates for both subadult and adult birds originating close to the wind farm (5 km) were lower than those at greater distance, leading to a detectable negative population growth rate in the area in and around the wind farm. However, there is currently no suggestion that the wider population is at risk.;Although not the subject of a specific unified study, there appears to be population scale impact of the APWRA upon Golden Eagle. For example, Golden Eagles used to breed in the APWRA up until around 19891990 before it was developed, but not thereafter although there is evidence of renewed attempts very recently, perhaps linked to the maintenance of high densities outside the APWRA (S. Smallwood, personal communication). It is mostly young birds that are killed in the APWRA, suggesting it operates as a population sink, which Katzner et al. (2016) suggest could operate over a considerable distance (100 km). Models show that the apparent stability of the local population is in fact maintained by continentalscale immigration. There are clear similarities with the case of the Whitetailed Eagles at Smla and perhaps even the Griffon Vultures in southern Spain (Martin et al., Chapter 8, Box 8.2). In all cases, it is easy to see that the presence of many more wind farms in similar situations could have a detrimental effect at a national or even a continental (international) scale.;The body of work referenced in the chapters in this volume is probably only a fraction of that represented in the grey literature of assessment documentation. Much interesting and rigorous work may have been undertaken but just not published, which is frustrating. Part of the reason may be that researchers and the developers of wind farms have different objectives or goals, in that