Whereas collision of birds or bats and the displacement of birds are typically seen as the most important effects of wind farms, this need not necessarily be true. Such is the typical scale of habitat modification undertaken during construction coupled with the modification of the microclimate during operation, the installation of a wind farm will invariably have ecological consequences, most of which will probably never be detected, simply because no one is looking. Significant effects, especially upon vegetation and poorly studied groups such as invertebrates or herpetofauna (if present), may be being missed. Thus, charting the response of a number of trophic levels to determine effects within the foodweb is more than simply of academic interest. Detailed knowledge of conditions before the site is built is essential. A more holistic approach tomonitoring would also help determine the mechanisms behind any effect, such as any displacement observed. If nothing else, this may help eliminate other confounding variables. For example, in their study of displacement of Golden Plover, Sansom et al. (2016) sampled vegetation characteristics and invertebrate abundance, both of which were linked to breeding success, which in turn was not linked to the wind farm.;Finally, there is enormous potential to achieve the ultimate prize of a winwin scenario for wind power and wildlife. First by reducing any effects of future wind farms to a negligible level through careful selection of sites and turbines, coupled with other mitigation measures such as colouring turbine blades (see May, Volume 2, Chapter 6) for birds, or raising the cutin speed for bats (Arnett et al. 2011 Arnett, Volume 2, Chapter 8). Second, restoration ecology is a mature science (Perrow  Davy 2002a,b) and it should be straightforward in many circumstances to make wind farms havens for wildlife, starting with plants and accordingly for many lower trophic levels such as invertebrates and thence small mammals, reptiles and many birds, especially small passerines and grounddwelling species. For a wind farm in an agricultural landscape this could begin by taking the land out of production. There is a risk that attracting wildlife to wind farms will lead to indirect effects such as enhanced collision particularly of raptors. However, the opposite may be true as some larger mammalian predators may be averse to spending time in wind farms, thereby providing a predatorfree refuge for some species.;I am indebted to all 23 chapter authors and the 16 additional case study authors for their knowledge and hard work in preparing their chapters. Thanks also to Shawn Smallwood for finding the time at short notice to provide thoughtprovoking comments on an earlier draft of this chapter. Andrew Harwood of ECON kindly redrew Figure 11.3 originally contained within a poster presentation to the British Ornithologists Union Conference Marine Renewables and Birds on 26 November 2012 in Peterborough UK with the permission of Statkraft.