The development of wind energy continues to increase around the world. Following the first studies on collisions of birds with turbines in the 1990s, knowledge has been shared through published papers and reports and through a series of regional, national and international meetings, and it is crucial that this trend continues. This chapter aims to summarise the current state of the science through a review of the available literature. A series of highprofile studies on raptors in various parts of Europe and North America have shaped the view that raptors are particularly vulnerable to collision. More recent studies have indicated that even passerines may be vulnerable in particular circumstances. Better experimental design and the standard use of methods to estimate scavenger removal, searcher efficiency and search radius are required to ensure that the effects on small species are detected. Various factors are responsible for collision events and the complexity of their interaction makes it difficult to understand how collision occurs. Speciesspecific factors (morphology, behaviour, vision, hearing, abundance and migration), wind farm characteristics (turbines, configuration and lights) and terrain topography may all be important. As a consequence, the estimates of bird deaths from collision with turbines range considerably. Nevertheless, the variation between turbines in the same site may be higher than the variation between sites and it is clear that some turbines are especially dangerous to birds. This introduces considerable scope to design and configure wind farms to reduce collision mortality. In general, populations of most species seem not to be significantly affected by this additional source of mortality, although there are examples of local depletion of vulnerable species. Moreover, cumulative effects of mortality across the range of migratory speciesin particular have barely begun to be assessed. Longterm studies are clearly required, especially on species of conservation concern, to ensure that populationscale effects are not missed.;As wind energy generation has proliferated around the world since the 1980s, knowledge about bird mortality at wind farms has also increased. Rogers et al. (1976) were the first to consider the prospect of mortality through collision with blades at an experimental turbine in Ohio, USA. The study focused on collisions of nocturnal migrants as it was assumed that birds would see and avoid the turbines during the daytime. Byrne (1983) then published what was probably the first scientific paper about bird movements and collision mortality at a turbine located in Solano County, California. Only one death was attributed to collision with the blades. Concern about avian mortality began to surface in the late 1980s and early 1990s, beginning with the report for the California Energy Commission by Susan Orloff and Anne Flannery in 1992 on avian activity, habitat use and mortality in Altamont Pass and Solano County Wind Resource Areas. Both areas provided foraging habitat for at least 13 species of resident and migrating hawks, eagles and vultures. Orloff and Flannery (1992) searched turbines and transmission lines for dead birds, adding the estimated rates of bird carcass removal by scavengers and the ability of observers to locate bird carcasses. Sixtyfive per cent of dead birds found were raptors and 55 of all raptor deaths were attributed to collisions with turbines. Immature Golden Eagles Aquila chrysaetos and Red tailed Hawks Buteo jamaicensis were killed more frequently than would have been predicted from their relative abundance in the population. The estimate of the number of raptors killed was 403 in the first year of the study and 164 during the second year.;Since July 1994, the National Avian WindPower Meeting series has addressed wind farm related avian mortality issues. During the first meeting, researchers reported that the species mainly affected in different areas were the Golden Eagle in the USA (Orloff  Flannery 1992), ducks in the Netherlands (Winkelman 1990) and soaring birds, especially Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus in Tarifa, southern Spain (Barrios  Mart 1995). The estimated mortality rates among these three studies also varied, with 39 eagles per year, 0.05 birds per turbine per night during migration and 0.075 vultures per turbine per year, respectively. The number of attendees