Wind farm operation can produce vibrations and shadow flicker. Vibrations are produced through infrasound due to turbulence associated with the turning blades, which can broadcast for tens of kilometres (Styles et al. 2011). These anthropogenic vibrations could have negative effects on wildlife reliant upon sensing vibration as a channel of communication (Hill 2001). Many reptiles and amphibians, including salamanders (Ross  Smith 1980), frogs (Lewis  Narins 1985) caecilians (Maddin  Sherratt 2014), lizards (Hetherington 1989), snakes (Hartline 1971) and turtles (Wever  Vernon 1956), can perceive natural vibrations from the quadrate bone or columella to inner ear or stapes (Hildebrand 1995). Some frogs and caecilians have evolved a heightened sensitivity to vibrations (Lewis  Narins 1985 Maddin  Sherratt 2014) and there is evidence of artificial and natural (Grant  Halliday 2010) vibrations influencing frog and toad behaviour. For example, artificially produced vibrations from electric motors consistently caused several spadefoot toad species to emerge from aestivation in the desert (Dimmitt  Ruibal 1980).;Larval and adult salamanders and frogs that retain the mechanosensory lateral line system could also be impacted by artificial vibrations. For example, Park et al. (2008) reported that adult male Hynobius leechii responded to experimentally produced vibrations via the lateral line system, which they postulated plays a role in competition between males. Likewise, species that use natural vibrations to locate prey, such as the Sandfish Lizard Scincus scincus (Hetherington 1989), could be adversely impacted by wind farm vibrations. Any species producing vibrations as a form of communication could also be negatively impacted. For example, some amphibians signal with vibrations through contact with the gular pouch or forelimbs with the substrate (Narins 1990), and any disruption to this could adversely affect their mating systems.;Reptiles and amphibians are sensitive to light pollution (Perry et al. 2008), and wind farms are known to produce light flicker (sunlight reflecting off spinning blades), shadow flicker (spinning blades interrupting sunlight) and flashing lights on tall turbine towers to warn aircraft. However, the direct impacts of light