A range of species have been identified that appear to be particularly vulnerable to collision. Of these, several species ofraptors, including Golden Eagle, Griffon Vulture and Whitetailed Eagle, have had a particularly high profile, although this is partly linked to the intensive research that has been triggered in each case. New species continue to be found under turbine blades and in some cases passerines are being detected as one of the avian groups with the highest collision mortality rates. Intrinsic characteristics from each species described in this chapter, such as morphology and flight patterns (e.g. obligatesoaring birds), behaviour (e.g. foraging, aggressive encounter, song flight and display), sexual (sex and age) and reproductive status (breeding or nonbreeding), seasonality (migration) and abundance, all affect mortality rate in different ways. Whether the species concerned is generally risk averse or whether any fear of turbines is moderated by other factors, such as a need to breed or to provision chicks, is probably a key factor in collisions. Understanding the visual capabilities and to a lesser extent the hearing of different groups is also proving to be important in predicting whether a species is vulnerable or not. However, we still have a long way to go to understand why collisions occur and, perhaps more importantly, to learn how to apply effective measures to reduce mortality.;There is, however, some general agreement in the scientific community that a range of factors is important in bird collision, but the relative weight of each one seems to be different in each case. However, the interaction between different factors also complicates any comparison of mortality estimates between and among species and studies. A further clear source of variation among studies results from the methods employed, with bias among the number of collisions introduced by variables such as removal of bodies by scavengers, search efficiency and search radius, which are not always integrated in the experimental design and monitoring protocols. To standardise results across studies, it will be necessary to adopt common and rigorous methodologies.;Despite the variability in mortality rates between studies, a number of points emerged from the 24 studies of individual wind farm sites or wind resource areas comprised of a number of sites in close proximity to each other, alongside more generic studies of a large number of sites (e.g. Zimmerling et al. 2013 Erickson et al. 2014). Variability appears to be particularly high between the turbines within a wind farm, with this varying from 0 to 125 birds per turbine per year in some cases. It is clear from many studies that some turbines, particularly those in isolation or on edges of the wind farm or associated with particular habitat features, are responsible for most bird deaths. In contrast, averaging the