Figure 2.1 Factors contributing to conservation of energy (energy balance) at the earths surface over flat, homogeneous vegetated terrain. At any given time of day or season some processes (arrows) will be absent and some may be positive in the opposite direction.;Visible radiation reaches the earth from the sun either directly or reflected by clouds or air molecules, and is either reflected or absorbed at the surface. Upward reflected energy is lost to ecosystem functioning and is therefore not considered further here. A ray of solar energy may be reflected once or many times within the plant canopy of an ecosystem. The density of plant parts governs the rate at which energy is absorbed as a function of depth into the canopy. Leaf area index (LAI), the onesided plant leaf area per unit ground area, is frequently used as a vegetation metric. The area density of upper leaves affects the photosynthetic capacity of lower leaves and smaller plants at the canopy floor.;Absorbed visible light is partitioned between photosynthetic processes and sensible heat content of the absorbing surface, including leaves, stems and soil. Of key relevance to a conceptual model of wind farm effects is the fate of the solar radiation that is converted to sensible heat. The absorbing surface warms and responds by (1) radiating some energy away from the surface at infrared wavelengths, (2) conducting some energy to the air above or solid surface below, and (3) evaporating or transpiring water to the air. The latter includes loss of water when the surface is wet from rain or dew and loss of water through plant stomata. These processes are combined into the term evapotranspiration, frequently referred to as ET. Energy and water transferred to the atmosphere change the air density and contribute to the buoyancy and turbulence of the atmosphere. Infrared radiation at the surface will be either incoming or outgoing depending on whether the surface is colder or warmer, respectively, than the air.