Cumulative effects, herewith described as the combined effect of one wind farm with others, were raised as being of importance in all but one of the taxonbased chapters. In the case of invertebrates, this was probably because the effects of single sites, let alone a combination of multiple sites, have barely begun to be understood. In relation to vegetation, Silva  Passos (Chapter 3) make a similar point that the prospect of cumulative effects was only mentioned in 50 of the 36 EIAs from 14 countries they reviewed. Furthermore, they conclude that meaningful cumulative assessment is difficult toachieve given the lack of information about existing projects on vegetation.;In relation to mobile and especially migratory birds and bats there is great scope for individuals and thus the individual components of populations or subpopulations to encounter multiple wind farms across their range. For birds, the best studied of all taxa, there appears to be no evidence for a cumulative effect for displacement (Htker, Chapter 7), which is pertinent given that the effects of displacement are hard to prove (see Disturbance and displacement above). Htker (Chapter 7) suggests the impact of wind farms must be seen in the context of other types of disturbance encountered by migrating birds, such as weather and food resources. For collision, which has a clear tangible impact of the death of the individual, Lucas  Perrow (Chapter 8) conclude that the cumulative effects of collision mortality across the range of migratory species in particular have barely begun to be assessed. The broad origins of a specimen collected under a turbine in a locality may, however, be intuitive from known migration patterns and centres of distribution in summer and wintering ranges. Using genetic and stable isotope data from Golden Eagles killed in the APWRA, Kantzer et al. (2016) demonstrated that 25 of collisions were of birds from 100 km distant with potential demographic consequences for both populations involved.;The prospect of determining whether bats suffer cumulative effects is especially remote as information on geographic ranges, movement patterns and sizes of bat populations, whether they are migratory or sedentary, active year round or hibernating may be scant or completely unknown (Barclay et al. Chapter 9). Ironically, recent research on bats has gone a step further than that on birds by identifying the origins of individuals killed at turbines at least in some parts of Germany (Voigt et al. 2012 Lehnert et al. 2014 see Hein, Volume 2, Chapter 2). Whereas Common Pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus was a short to middistance migrant, Nathusius Pipistrelle P. nathusii was a longdistant migrant likely to have originated from Estonia or Russia (Voigt et al. 2012). Among another species pair in the same study, the Noctule Bats Nyctalus noctula killed probably originated from Poland or Scandinavia, whilst Leislers Bats N. leisleri came from the Baltic countries of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Before striking turbines in Germany, it seems possible that individuals came into contact with other wind farms.