A few studies provide data that may be used to assess theattraction hypothesis in general. Using radar, Ron Larkin (personal communication 2015) found that bats generally reacted by moving towards or approaching turbines, sometimes from hundreds of metres away. Whether the cues used by bats to detect the turbines were acoustic or visual (movement or simply the silhouette) could not be addressed. Other studies have estimated bat activity at turbines compared to away from them by recording echolocation calls. Results are not consistent. In one study in Iowa, USA (Jain et al. 2011), activity of bats was no different at turbines versus away from them, suggesting that bats were not attracted to turbines. In another study, migratory bat activity was lower at turbines than at sites away from turbines (Young et al. 2011) and at small wind turbines (50 kW, towers 612 m tall), bat activity was reduced in close proximity (within 5 m) of turbines, suggesting avoidance behaviour (Minderman et al. 2012). Finally, using communication towers as an example of tall structures, Jameson and Willis (2014) found that activity of migratory bats at towers increased late in the summer, although it was no different from that along the edges of woodlots. Taken together, these studies do not conclusively show whether bats are attracted to turbines from a significant distance, but the thermal imaging observations suggest that bats passing close to turbines often approach them, especially when the blades are not moving at full speed.;Many of the bat species frequently killed at wind turbines roost in trees, or did so before human structures (buildings) were available (Table 9.1). This suggests that migrating bats in particular, but possibly others, mistakenly perceive turbines as trees and approach them looking for a roost site (e.g. Kunz et al. 2007 Horn et al. 2008 Cryan  Barclay 2009). Observations of bats closely approaching the tower and nacelle of turbines, as if investigating them (Horn et al. 2008 Cryan et al. 2014), have been taken as support for this hypothesis. However, in some areas, bats that roost in caves (e.g. Mexican Freetailed Bats Tadarida brasiliensis and other species in the family Molossidae, as well as Bentwinged Bats Miniopterus spp.) or cliffs (e.g. Particoloured Bat Vespertilio murinus and Greater Noctule Nyctalus lasiopterus) are also killed by turbines (Table 9.1), and it is hard to imagine that they perceive wind turbines as potential roosts.