Rajewski et al. (2014) report on heat, moisture and CO2 flux measurements from the CWEX10CWEX11 field campaigns conducted during the growing seasons of 2010 and 2011 in the same wind farms as studied by Rajewski et al. (2013). Their data taken in a Maize Zea mays field demonstrated that turbines were probably enhancing daytime CO2 flux down into the crop canopy, but also raising nighttime temperature, which enhances respiration over short periods. Rajewski et al. (2014) point out that, despite the uniform appearance of the crop landscape, variability within and between fields due to Maize cultivar, soil texture and moisture content, and management techniques leads to large uncertainties in measured fluxes. Such conditions make it extremely difficult toattribute any seasonlong biophysical changes, and much less yield, to turbines alone. By extension, it will be even more challenging to assess the biophysical impacts of turbines in more heterogeneous ecosystems and landscapes.;Rajewski et al. (2014) did, however, show that the friction velocity, that is, the frictional interaction between the atmosphere and crop, was increased by about 2550 at night during periods when turbines were on versus when they were off. Normal stilling of the wind at night is known to reduce evaporation and allow for longer dew periods, which is favourable for many fungal diseases. The enhanced friction velocity caused by turbines at night will be likely to reduce nightly dew periods and consequently fungal growth periods in humid climates.;A rare opportunity to confirm turbine influences occurred during the overnight hours of 2728 August 2010 during CWEX10. Early in the evening the surface heat flux leeward of the turbine line gradually became increasingly more negative at three downwind stations than at the upwind station, indicating that the atmosphere was giving heat to the surface downwind of the turbines (Figure 2.4). At approximately 2300 LST the heat flux difference at all three downwind stations dropped to near zero, or in other words, all four stations measured essentially the same heat flux. Shortly after midnight the heat flux differences at all downwind stations returned nearly to their previous levels. Clearly, the gradually increasing loss of heat from the surface as the evening progressed was abruptly interrupted for about 72 minutes and then returned to its previous differences of heat loss. Documents provided by the wind farm operator revealed that the entire wind farm of 200 turbines was shut down for 72 minutes starting at 2300, with some turbines taking longer than others to slow to a halt (Figure 2.4). The crosswind turbulence spectrum showed a 30 decrease in the peak intensity at the downwind stations when the turbines were off compared to when they were on, and the downward surface heat flux was higher by 1025 Wm2 when the turbines were operating (Figure 2.4).