In the face of the inevitable uncertainty of any prediction, there is an expectation that the best scientific evidence be applied using the best available methods. As such, the assessment may be judged against the criterion of reasonable scientific doubt and with the adoption of the precautionary principle. The latter in particular is difficult to define and the level of precaution adopted may vary considerably according to the perceived sensitivity of the receptor species, perhaps with further influence of the context of the site and its stakeholders. To this end, it could be argued that no wind farm currently going through a consent process should ultimately present a serious threat to wildlife. Exceptions may include projects of inherent national (or international) significance where they may bea case of imperative reasons for overriding public interest (IROPI) of the development of a project as defined under Article 6 of the Habitats Directive (EU 2001). IROPI in this case has to demonstrate that there are no alternative solutions, which is arguably difficult in the case of wind farms. Any current wind farms or regions with wind farms publicised with relatively high rates of impact upon particular species, such as the APWRA (Smallwood  Thelander 2008 Smallwood  Karas 2009), Smla in Norway (Dahl et al. 2012, 2013) and Tarifa in southern Spain (Lucas et al. 2012), are effectively rooted in consent decisions from the past and the best way forward is to be committed to learn from those experiences. It should also be borne in mind that repowering of oldtechnology turbines with fewer, newgeneration machines with the potential to generate far more electricity (per MW) for any effect incurred, represents a significant opportunity to reduce impacts (May, Volume 2, Chapter 6 Smallwood, Volume 2, Chapter 7).;A key problem of the impact assessment undertaken for wind farms to date is that the predictions of effects do not seem to have necessarily reflected the reality of the operational landscape (Ferrer et al. 2012). The reasons for this are not entirely clear, but could, firstly, suggest issues with the ability of characterisation surveys to accurately describe utilisation of the future site by particular groups and species, bearing in mind that utilisation expressed as abundance may not represent risk (Lucas et al. 2008). Even for birds, the best studied group, Smallwood (2013 Volume 2, Chapter 1) concludes that a lack of targeted standardised monitoring contributes to poor predictions of impacts. A second problem may lie with the accuracy of predictive tools such as collision risk modelling (see Smales, Volume 2, Chapter 3). Third, the general lack of postconsent monitoring means that there is often no test of predictions in the first place. Thus, the number of sites where predictions were tested after the site was built appears to be low 20 wind farms in the case of Ferrer et al. (2012). Inadequate monitoring removes the basis for adaptive management, which is seen to be key to the sustainable development of wind farms (Gartman et al., Volume 2, Chapter 9). The absence of monitoring also means that any proposed mitigation of effects, which is a fundamental component of EIA (and HRA), also remains untested (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3). Most recently, Sinclair  DeGeorge (2016) have proposed a rigorous monitoring framework to effectively test impactreduction methods upon particularly sensitive groups (bats and eagles).