It is not always completely clear why wind turbines disturb birds. Disturbance of birds may be caused by the wind turbines themselves or by the obligate installations required during the construction and operation of wind farms such as maintenance roads, electric cables and buildings, as well as other practices such as maintenance works that cause habitat loss or fragmentation of the landscape (Johnson et al. 2000 Pruett et al. 2009). In many cases, the sheer existence of a huge vertical structure in an otherwise open and clear landscape may disturb birds occupying open habitats. The reason for not approaching a structure too closely may be the same as for trees, that is, the avoidance of a sudden attack by a predator that may be hiding in or behind the structure. Studies have not routinely distinguished between possible sources of disturbance originating from wind turbines (Langston  Pullan 2003). Potentially, disturbance could be caused by one orseveral factors such as the wind turbine itself, the operation of the turbine, including emissions of noise and shadow or light effects, and the regular presence of people visiting the turbine to carry out maintenance. The movement of the rotor may increase the magnitude of the disturbance (de Lucas et al. 2004), but it does not always have an effect. For example, Leddy et al. (1999) found no effect of rotor movement on American grassland birds, mirroring the findings of Larsen and Guilemette (2007) for Common Eider Somateria mollissima in the offshore environment.;Studies on the disturbance of birds by wind farms usually measure the effects of disturbance rather than observing it directly. Exceptions are studies of barrier effects, where behavioural changes, such as deviations from original flight directions, are directly recorded. The parameters used to express the occurrence of birds include counts of birds, often transferred into densities (individuals or pairs per unit of area), a range of measurements of bird activity and breeding success. Most studies perform counts following standardised methods (Bibby et al. 1993). Bird activity can be measured with many different techniques, ranging from radio telemetry (Pruett et al. 2009) to counts of droppings in resting geese (Madsen  Boertmann 2008).;Ideally, the effects of disturbance should be studied using a beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) design (Langston  Pullan 2003). Bird numbers or other relevant parameters are assessed on the wind farm site before and after the construction of the wind farm. To detect general trends in bird abundance that may mask the effects of the wind farm, bird numbers are also assessed at a control site without a wind farm similar to the wind farm site (Pearce Higgins et al. 2012). Full BACI design studies need to start well before the erection of the wind turbines, and should last for several years. Longterm studies are recommended, because birds are often very faithful to a location even if a wind farm is built on their breeding site. The effects of wind farms may become visible only when new recruits take a more free choice of settling place (Langston  Pullan 2003 Stewart et al. 2007). Full BACI designs have been relatively rarely applied during wind farm studies, probably because of their long duration and the need for pre construction data. In their overview, Htker et al. (2005) did not find more than 8 studies with a BACI design, and Stewart et al. (2007) could not include more than 6 BACI design studies and 13 gradient impact (GI) design studies (see below) in a formal meta analysis. Some further studies incorporated beforeandafter construction data, but did not employ any controls.