Fifthly, several aspects of bat behaviour may make themparticularly susceptible to fatality at wind farms. As in birds, bats vary in their response to seasonal variation in environmental conditions and food resources. Some remain resident and active year round in areas where sufficient resources are available. When resources are absent or scarce during part of the year (e.g. during the winter in temperate regions, or the dry season in tropical or subtropical regions), some species migrate (Fleming  Eby 2003), and migrating individuals make up a significant proportion of fatalities (Table 9.1). In temperate regions, other species hibernate in their summer range during the winter, often forming large aggregations in caves, mines, trees or buildings (Altringham 2011). During the summer, females of many species aggregate in maternity colonies in trees, caves or buildings. Colonies vary in size from a few individuals to millions in some caves (Altringham 2011), and such summer and winter aggregations may increase the potential for populationlevel impacts if turbines are built nearby.;Lastly, various species of bats have been protected by governments because of concerns over declining populations caused by a variety of other anthropogenic factors such as climate change, habitat loss and fragmentation, and introduced pathogens such as whitenose syndrome (Leopardi et al. 2015). In Europe, for example, national legislation and the EUROBATS agreement (EUROBATS 2015) give all bats and their roosts strict protection. In North America, several bat species are listed as endangered or threatened on the US Endangered Species List (US Fish and Wildlife Service 2015), or by the Canadian Species at Risk Act (Government of Canada 2015). Mortality caused by wind turbines adds to the already existing challenges faced by bat populations.;The purposes of this chapter are to summarise what is known regarding the effects of wind farms on bats and the variation in those effects among and within locations and species to assess the various hypotheses proposed to explain why bats are killed at wind turbines to discuss the potential for lethal and nonlethal effects to have negative impacts on bat populations and to indicate where there are important gaps in our understanding of the effects of wind energy on bats, and what, in the authors opinion, are the most pressing questions. To do this, the authors collated both the peer reviewed literature and unpublished reports, and drew upon their extensive experience with bats and wind energy.