The potential ecological impact of underwater noise and vibration emanating from offshore wind farm construction sites is now appreciated (Bergstrm et al. 2014), and in certain cases it could also be an issue during the construction phase of onshore windfarms. Underwater noise and vibration has the potential to change the behaviour of fish, and in some extreme cases cause injury (Popper  Hastings 2009). The construction of wind farms often requires the use of pile driving and excavation work using explosives, and such activities could potentially generate sound and vibration, which could subsequently enter adjacent water bodies. If turbine bases were to be constructed near watercourses, it is possible that there could be some localised effects. Moreover, the construction of bridges over watercourses and the piling work required could affect fish in the immediate area of the bridge crossing. However, in general, the impact of any type of construction work is expected to be localised and would last only for the duration of the works. Overall, it seems unlikely that noise and vibration will emerge as a significant conflict in relation to onshore wind farms and aquatic organisms.;Nonnative invasive species are accepted as being one of the leading causes of biodiversity loss globally (Didham et al. 2005), and construction activities have been identified as an important vector for the introduction and dispersion of nonnative invasive organisms (Booy et al. 2008). Road construction is often associated with wind farm projects and can facilitate the introduction and range expansion of exotic plants, animals and diseases (Forman 2003 National Roads Authority 2008). Many nonnative invasive species of concern are riparian and freshwater plants, and plant fragments can potentially be accidentally transported into a wind farm site by machinery or along with construction materials, or be spread downstream following disturbance.;The construction of one wind farm in addition to another constitutes a cumulative impact. Incombination impacts may result from other human activities such as forestry and agriculture occurring alongside wind farm development. Many proposed wind farm sites bring with them many of the potential impacts outlined in the previous sections above, and there will be further pressure by building a wind farm in areas already subject to other anthropogenic activity. For example, constructing a wind farm in an upland area in winter while forestry operations are ongoing may cause significant incombination water quality impacts. Although the potential effect of a wind farm on recipient aquatic ecosystems