In addition, although the barrier effects due to a single wind farm may be negligible (Masden et al. 2009), for migratory birds that travel thousands of kilometres between breeding sites andwinter quarters twice annually, small effects could potentially accumulate to significant losses of time and energy with consequences for individual fitness, when birds encounter many wind farms during their journeys. But there is no evidence for such cumulative effects so far and the impact of wind farms must be seen in the context of other disturbances encountered by migrating birds, such as the weather and food resources.;Many of the studies referred to in this chapter provide convincing evidence of localscale displacements of birds due to wind farms, and displacement can generally be regarded as a commonly occurring impact of such development. However, not all bird species are affected. The species often suffering from displacement are birds inhabiting open landscapes, in particular swans, geese, ducks, cranes, waders and a few passerine species. There usually is little impact on other species, but exceptions do occur. The occurrence of sensitive species such as Arctic breeding geese and waders during the nonbreeding rather than the breeding season in temperate regions where most wind farms occur may have been responsible for the fact that avoidance was more often recorded outside the breeding season than within the breeding season. It is also of note that the taxonomic and ecological groups of birds that suffered from displacement due to wind farms did usually not suffer strongly from collision mortality, suggesting that, at least to some extent, displacement and collision risk are two sides of the same coin.;One of the striking features of compilations of published results of studies of avoidance and displacement is the lack of consistency between different studies. Although part of the variance may be explained by different methods, it is very clear that individuals of the same species react differently to wind turbines at different places and at different times. The variance may also be due to different individual circumstances, which could be linked to the quality and abundance of the available resource and nutritional status, as well as other factors such as flock size or perceived predation risk. If resources are limited, such as breeding territories or food in winter, then individuals may be prepared to take more risks or simply tolerate the presence of wind farms. As well as effects upon birds resident in an area on either breeding or wintering grounds, barrier effects of wind farms on migrating birds