Although there may be nonlethal effects of wind farms on bats and bat populations, fatalities are the most obvious effect. No matter how those fatalities occur, whether bats are struck by the moving blades or killed via barotrauma, the key factor involved is that the bat was in the same place as an operating turbine. Why bats are present where turbines are located has been debated since bat fatalities were first discovered, and many hypotheses have been proposed (e.g. Johnson et al. 2004 Kunz et al. 2007 Cryan  Barclay 2009 Rydell et al. 2010b). Although predictions have been proposed as ways of testing the hypotheses (Cryan  Barclay 2009), none has been rigorously tested, often because of the difficulty in observing relatively infrequent events of bats interacting with turbines, at night, high above the ground. Determining why bats are killed is not just of scientific interest. It may also provide ways to reduce fatalities by altering the placement, design or operation of wind farms and turbines. However, given the diversity of habitats and species of bats involved, it seems likely that multiple ultimatefactors contribute to bat fatalities, with different ones associated with different locations, times of year, species, sexes, ages and reproductive conditions (see also Rydell et al. 2010b).;Turbine blades are large objects that echolocating bats should be able to detect. There are several hypotheses as to why bats might not detect moving blades, or detect them too late to avoid them. An early hypothesis (Kunz et al. 2007) was that highflying bats, especially migrating individuals, may not echolocate consistently given the lack of obstacles normally in their way. This could make sense, although the lack of a significant cost of echolocation, above the cost of flying (Speakman et al. 1989), means that there would be little benefit in not echolocating. In addition, several studies indicate that even migrating bats feed as they fly (Reimer et al. 2010 Suba et al. 2012 Valdez  Cryan 2013) and foraging should require echolocation. Indeed, both migratory (e.g. McCracken et al. 2008 Ahln et al. 2009 Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Cryan et al. 2014) and nonmigratory (Collins  Jones 2009 Staton  Poulton 2012) species echolocate while flying at, or even above, blade height. Whether all bats flying at high altitude echolocate is difficult to assess.;Even if highflying bats echolocate, features of turbine blades may eliminate or reduce the bats ability to detect them. Echolocation is a relatively shortrange detection system (Altringham 2011). In addition, turbine towers and blades are smooth surfaces that may act like curved acoustic mirrors, reflecting echolocation sounds away from a bat unless the bat is oriented directly at the surface. This would reduce echo intensity and make detection more difficult (e.g. Long et al. 2009). In addition, the blades of large turbines are far apart and occupy a small proportion of a bats acoustic field.;Fatalities of bats at wind turbines probably represent a combination of random events, represented by individuals of species flying at turbineblade height (e.g. Hoary Bat in North America and Nathusius Pipistrelle Pipistrellus nathusii in Europe), with non random events, involving bats being attracted to the habitats or landscapes occupied by wind farms, or to turbines themselves.;As Cryan and Barclay (2009) suggested, bats could be killed at random, that is, they happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time (i.e. where and when there is an operational wind turbine with moving blades). If this were the case, variation in fatalities should reflect variation in the local abundance of bats and the community