Ecologically functioning buffer zones could be developed or a Habitat Management Plan for an area releasing nutrients could replace a previously overgrazed site, thereby reducing losses within a specific part of a catchment. The implementation of comprehensive Surface Water Management Plans to include retention of soils within the boundaries of wind farm sites and reducing the incidence of pollution will help to protect water quality within an FPM catchment. Measures such as those outlined in Altmller  Dettmer (2006), in particular, are recommended, whereby sediment trappingcan be accomplished by constructing ponds or wetlands. These measures could be implemented before construction, allowing runoff to be diverted into retention areas prior to surface waters leaving the site. Plans in relation to water quality protection should be incorporated into the design and working schedule of a wind farm project and some features built during construction may be left in place long after a wind farm is decommissioned, continuing to provide water quality protection. In light of the large number of problems in relation to surface water pollution by suspended solids, any wind farm construction site should employ personnel experienced in water quality protection. Geotextiles and mobile mechanical silt traps should not be relied upon totally for silt attenuation but should be used in combination with other measures where they can reduce erosion and loss of suspended solids.;With a wellconsidered and combined approach to water quality protection at wind farm developments, there are possibilities for reducing threats such as nutrient enrichment, pollution incidents and erosion, and even making improvements in water quality with positive implications for FPM. Works in the River Lutter catchment in Germany illustrate that when anthropogenic silt loads are reduced to natural levels, successful recruitment of FPMs can be achieved (Altmller  Dettmer 2006). Designing effective solutions to protect FPM catchments during wind farm developments would also ensure that all other aquatic organisms and their habitats would be protected.;Water quality has a critical influence on the structure and functioning of aquatic ecological communities, and it is imperative that this is maintained or even improved during development. Almost all construction projects pose a potential risk of causing water pollution, and the construction works associated with installing turbine bases, access roads, substations and the electrical cable network on wind farm sites are no exception. Although the main conflict between aquatic organisms and their habitats seems likely to occur as a result of construction phase impacts, pollution with surface drainage water from paved areas and track surfaces