There are several limitations in terms of the breadth of the information available regarding bats and wind farms. Almost all of the data regarding the effects on bats come from North America and Europe. Despite the fact that China is the largest producer of wind energy, there are no available data on its impacts upon bats, and there is also little information from India, which is among the top five wind energy producers. In addition, the focus of research regarding the effects of wind energy on bats has been almost exclusively on fatalities there is almost no information regarding nonlethal effects via habitat loss and fragmentation, or disturbance.;The construction and operation of wind farms are likely to have nonlethal effects on bats, but there are no direct data indicating the consequences of these effects. The most obvious nonlethal environmental effects are habitat loss, alteration and fragmentation. These undoubtedly affect bats in a variety of ways, depending on the habitat and species of bat involved. In a survey of 32 Canadian wind farms, an average of 1.23 ha of land was used per turbine, including land used for the turbines themselves, but also for roads, transmission lines and electrical substations (Zimmerling et al. 2013). This survey averaged impacts across facilities in a variety of habitat types, but habitat loss or change is likely to be greatest when forested areas are cleared for wind farm construction. At one wind farm in the USA, for example, 2.25 ha per turbine were cleared and converted from forest to grassland (Tidhar et al. 2013). Unfortunately, most reports do not indicate the amount of land altered for turbines and associated infrastructure, but simply state the total area encompassing the entire wind farm. In addition, many wind farms have been constructed in agricultural areas, or other previously degraded landscapes in which the impact in terms of habitat loss is probably negligible. The actual footprint for each turbine is relatively small. On a perunit of energy production basis, one study found that the loss of habitat for wind farms in the western USA was equivalent to that for oil and gas developments, while habitat fragmentation caused by wind farms was less (Jones  Pejchar 2013).;Clearing of forests for the construction of wind farms may have several effects on bats. Treeroosting species lose roosting habitat, and species that forage in forests lose foraging habitat. Conversely,