A number of other effects of turbines and related infrastructure have been documented. Bats are known to be attracted to turbines, with one theory suggesting they are attempting to access roost sites in and around the nacelle and other structures (Barclay et al., Chapter 9). Oldergeneration turbines, especially those with lattice structures, offer a range of nooks and crannies. In the APWRA, hole nesting species such as American Kestrel Falco sparverius and several owl species have often been recovered from turbines. Indeed, entrapment accounts for 0.31.5 of fatalities in different studies in this area, with oiling also commonly recorded, indicating that birdshave been in close proximity of the turbines working parts (S. Smallwood personal communication).;Turbines catch fire as a result of lighting strikes, electrical malfunction, mechanical failure and maintenance error. Fires appear to be underreported and occur more frequently than commonly perceived (Gosden 2014). Lovich  Ennen (Chapter 6) document such fires (and others from other anthropogenic sources) in their study area for Agassizs Desert Tortoise Gopherus agassizii. The effects on G. agassizii were complex as although some tortoises have been injured or killed by fire, others shifted the focus of their activity into burned areas, presumably in response to foraging opportunities on vegetation regrowth. Vegetation not adapted to fire may not easily regenerate, however. As for construction activity, slowmoving invertebrates and vertebrates, or those species that refuge underground when faced with a potential hazard, may perish in fires. This could be an issue especially for species with small populations and slow rates of recovery.;Electrocution of birds is known to occur where there is above ground distribution involving riser elements and lightning arrestors, which are especially dangerous. Orloff  Flannery (1992) report that 8 of bird fatalities in the APWRA were attributable to electrocution. The rate of electrocutions is thought to have declined subsequently due to retrofits of the equipment on power poles (Shawn Smallwood, personal communication). Power lines are known to be a significant conservation issue with 1264 million birds estimated to be killed annually in the USA, of which 857 million collide and 0.911.6 million are electrocuted (Loss et al. 2014). Modern wind farms tend to have belowground distribution immediately around the site (see Vella, Chapter 1), but electricity originating from wind farms may subsequently be carried by power lines, although these will rarely be exclusively linked to wind farms.;The construction of wind farms may trigger changes in hydrology, soils and vegetation (see Habitat loss and modification above) that have farreaching effects, both in physical extent if watercourses are affected (OConnor, Chapter 5), but also through foodweb effects that can cascade across trophic levels beginning with plants (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3) and extending to invertebrates (Elzay et al., Chapter 4) and their predators in other trophic levels. In short, the ecology of a wind farm may be fundamentally affected. Curious then, that there seems to be little, if any, fundamental research into such effects. This is mirrored, however, by the lack of research on