Wind farms may conceivably produce an array of short, medium or longterm negative impacts. Whether the identified impacts occur and what the most significant real impacts are should be determined by the results of ecological monitoring before, during and after development. An optimised EIA process applies specific predictions and impact analyses to existing biological communities at the project site and may trigger actions to conserve flora (Bio3 2010). The EIA process allows the early identification of the most important natural features in the area of implementation of a new wind farm. This will allow developers to avoid affecting these natural assets, or at least to minimise possible impacts. Meticulous work should be done to achieve this goal, especially when the main concerns are related to important, and often inconspicuous, plant species (Figure 3.3). Despite the importance of vegetation, impacts on plant communities are commonly considered to be a minor problem compared to those on other groups, such as birds or bats (Silva et al. 2011). Nevertheless, significant impacts can be triggered by construction activities, especially where these have led to the removal of vegetation (deforestation) (Box 3.1). In other words, effects can persist long after the cessation of the original action. One of the main issues that make it difficult to address the occurrence and magnitude of possible impacts on flora and vegetation is a simple lack of knowledge, not only of the distribution and abundance of important species in the specific habitat location but also about ecology, phenology and ecological processes. Another difficulty relates to the fact that in EIA studies it is not always possible to conduct fieldwork in a favourable season that allows the identification of some species under study. For example, someannual species do not have vegetative parts for much of the year.;In general, impact assessment takes into account two main phases construction and operation. The major activities that are generally considered to have the potential to affect vegetation are summarised in Table 3.1.;Table 3.1 Major activities that occur during the construction and operation phases of a wind farm with the potential to impact upon vegetation (Mendes et al. 2002 Coelho 2007 Bio3 2012a).;The construction phase of a wind farm involves the removal of the existing vegetation and earthmoving for the construction of wind farm foundations, platforms and opening up new access, for example (Figure 3.1). In its initial phase, the construction of this type of project involves a heavy traffic of vehicles, especially large machinery (trucks, backhoes, cranes, etc.), but also the means of transporting the workers themselves. The presence of crane trucks and largescale equipment is also required for the transport and installation of the turbines, as the pieces have large dimensions (Figure 3.2).