In relation to mitigation, any work to mitigate the impact of alien species generally has to be done after construction is completed (Silva et al. 2011). In contrast, any impacts regarding important vegetation types and particular species of flora are generally easier to avoid or minimise in the early stages rather than relying on the restoration of habitats and species after the event. The science of restoration ecology, which attempts to better understand the process of succession and use its principles to re establish natural terrestrial communities (Davy 2002), is becoming more important as human impacts on ecosystems are increasingly becoming more numerous and profound. Rehabilitation or restoration of disturbed areas is often undertaken in wind farm projects at the end of the construction phase and aims to minimisethe impacts resulting from the implementation of the project and enable better landscape integration. Usually, simple actions that favour the natural regeneration of vegetation, such as terrain modelling, spreading topsoil in the targeted areas and sometimes distributing seed, are undertaken. If done properly, landscape restoration can have positive effects on vegetation, by accelerating the process of colonisation of the disturbed areas and thus the succession of communities, as well as possibly preventing or hindering colonisation by invasive species (Davis et al. 2000). Alternatively, landscape restoration could backfire and have serious negative effects on the surrounding ecosystems by allowing the colonisation of important habitats by pioneer and synanthropic and alien species from disturbed habitats (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Fraga et al. 2008), and lead to genetic pollution of plant populations, thereby altering vegetation communities and their ecology. Careful consideration of the issues and the techniques that should be applied, with the support of rigorous monitoring, is clearly required in future projects.;Table 3.4 Negative effects and potential impacts that occur during wind farm construction and operational phases and their respective responsible activities (Mendes et al. 2002 Coelho 2007 Bio3 2012a).