Displacement due to disturbance is one of the key threats to birds posed by onshore wind farms. This chapter summarises the knowledge on this issue, gathered from a review of the existing literature. The most severely affected groups of species were Anseriformes (swans, geese and ducks) and Charadriiformes (particularly shorebirds). All other groups of birds seemed to be less affected, although there were exceptions. Taxonomic and ecological groups of birds that suffered from displacement due to wind farms did not usually suffer strongly from collision mortality. Species showing high avoidance nearly all occurred in open landscapes such as grasslands, farmland and open wetlands. However, for hardly any species were the results completely consistent between studies, with factors such as habitat type masking the impact of wind farms. Some species were seemingly attracted by wind farms or, more likely, by new habitats that had become available through the construction of the wind farm and its infrastructure. For the majority of species, there was a tendency for stronger wind farm avoidance during the nonbreeding season than during the breeding season. In most species displacement took place on a small scale, usually up to 200 m from the turbines, but in sensitive species avoidance extended up to 800 m. A few species showed habituation towards wind farms in the sense that avoidance distances decreased with time after construction. In most cases, taller turbines had greater impacts. Barrier effects of wind farms were reported for many bird species, but the results were often not consistent between studies. Studies conducted so far revealed much evidence for local displacement of several bird species. Owing to a lack of studies on cumulative effects of wind farms there is no evidence for populationwide effects of displacement. To avoid damage topopulations of endangered and protected bird species, the magnitude of cumulative effects should be an urgent priority for further study.;Displacement of birds owing to disturbance by onshore wind farms is a common phenomenon (Langston  Pullan 2003 Gove et al. 2013). Besides collision with wind turbines, the major threat to birds posed by wind farms is thought to be displacement. In this chapter, disturbance is regarded as any change in behaviour leading to a change in temporal or spatial use of an area that is manifested as avoidance of, and thus displacement from, that area. Displaced birds may no longer use suitable habitat within or close to a wind farm, or use it less frequently than they would in the absence of the wind farm. Displacement thus may result in net loss of habitat available for the population. Birds may be particularly sensitive to displacement ultimately because they are relatively long lived given their small body mass (Lindstedt  Calder 1974). Population growth is thus strongly influenced by adult survival. Any factors reducing adult survival, such as collision mortality or exclusion from preferred habitats, may have a strong influence upon individual fitness. There is much evidence, however, that some species or groups of species are more affected than others, although there are conflicting results for some species (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Htker 2008). It may therefore be assumed that birds react differently to wind farms under different circumstances.;It is not always completely clear why wind turbines disturb birds. Disturbance of birds may be caused by the wind turbines themselves or by the obligate installations required during the construction and operation of wind farms such as maintenance roads, electric cables and buildings, as well as other practices such as maintenance works that cause habitat loss or fragmentation of the landscape (Johnson et al. 2000 Pruett et al. 2009). In many cases, the sheer existence of a huge vertical structure in an otherwise open and clear landscape may disturb birds occupying open habitats. The reason for not approaching a structure too closely may be the same as for trees, that is, the avoidance of a sudden attack by a predator that may be hiding in or behind the structure. Studies have not routinely distinguished between possible sources of disturbance originating from wind turbines (Langston  Pullan 2003). Potentially, disturbance could be caused by one or