(Smales, Volume 2, Chapter 3). This should be active avoidance rather than passive avoidance where birds pass through a rotor swept area and avoid collision by chance. Unfortunately, despite a large number of studies, there are few empirically derived avoidance rates, simply as it has proved to be difficult to determine if a bird undertook avoidance in response to potential collision and not some other factor, and very few observers have ever seen a collision. As with understanding displacement, beforeafter studies provide the best means of deriving avoidance rate from a comparison of flight lines and behaviours before the site is built compared to after it becomes operational (Figure 11.3).;Without at least one recorded collision, avoidance rate is invariably 100, although this may be largely a function of insufficient sample size. In such circumstances, it can be helpful to provide a precautionary estimate of avoidance rate by breaking down avoidance into a series of steps such as macro, meso and microavoidance as far as can be achieved (Cook et al. 2014). In practice, macroavoidance may be readily described as the change in proportion of birds that entered the site before its development compared to afterwards, whilst mesoavoidance may represent within wind farm changes, such as the change in proportion of birds willing to pass within the potential rotor span at risk height before the compared to after the turbines are built. Microavoidance could represent the change in the proportion of birds that would have entered the rotor swept area. These terms multiply in the following form;Without at least one recorded collision, avoidance rate is invariably 100, although this may be largely a function of insufficient sample size. In such circumstances, it can be helpful to provide a precautionary estimate of avoidance rate by breaking down avoidance into a series of steps such as macro, meso and microavoidance as far as can be achieved (Cook et al. 2014). In practice, macroavoidance may be readily described as the change in proportion of birds that entered the site before its development compared to afterwards, whilst mesoavoidance may represent within wind farm changes, such as the change in proportion of birds willing to pass within the potential rotor span at risk height before the compared to after the turbines are built. Microavoidance could represent the change in the proportion of birds that would have entered the rotor swept area. These terms multiply in the following formavoidance rate  1  (1  macroavoidance)  (1  meso avoidance) (1  microavoidance);An alternative method of retrospectively calculating avoidance rate is through the number of birds that have been recorded as fatalities compared to the birds predicted to collide with no avoidance from modelled survey data. Cook et al. (2014) attempted to derive avoidance rates for a number of gull species by compiling data from a range of studies. Although this proved possible in some cases, it also clearly illustrated the difficulties of interpreting data gathered in different ways at different types of sites with their own individual circumstances and resultant bird behaviours (Figure 11.10).