Any effects documented in the chapters effectively fell into two groups direct effects where some aspect of the turbines and associated infrastructure, including roads and buildings, affects the distribution or abundance of organisms in some way and indirect effects where some change to ecological form or functioning ultimately leads to an effect upon a species or taxonomic group of interest, but often via a circuitous route through the foodweb. Obvious direct effects include disturbance and displacement and collision with blades (and other structures), whereas indirect effects result could result from changes in hydrology and soil structure, the introduction of alien competitors or predators, and increased human access. The distinction between direct and indirect effects is blurredas an indirect effect may start as a direct effect. For example, a direct change in vegetation is likely to be subsequently expressed upon invertebrate richness and abundance. As a result, no systematic distinction between direct and indirect effects is made in the Themes.;Furthermore, some characteristic parts of wind farms, such as the network of (typically) gravel roads to access turbines and other infrastructure, instigate a range of potential unrelated effects and in order to discuss these efficiently, roads were most usefully presented as a Theme in their own right. It is important to remember that although roads may be built specifically to service wind farms, roads are not specific to wind farms and thus the effects they have may be typical of any largescale construction activity for other purposes such as pipelines and property development. Conversely, wind farms have some more or less specific effects stemming from collision of fauna with the turbines themselves, or the disturbance of fauna in some way leading to its displacement from the footprint of the turbine or perhaps even from the wind farm as a whole. These specific effects of wind farms demanded more attention within the Themes.;The Oxford English Dictionary defines an impact as a marked effect or influence. In the context of this book, an effect becomes an impact once it leads to a definable change in an important parameter or measure of the species or group concerned such as a significant decline in numbers, density or a population parameter such as productivity. Consideration of single factors at a local scale then leads to an assessment of the evidence for incombination and cumulative effects across wind farms, which would intuitively increase the prospect of populationscale impacts. That is, if the population can be adequately defined. If not, it may be more appropriate to determine the biological significance of impacts. However, as concluded at a meeting of the National Wind Coordinating Committee (2003) in the USA, this approach is fraught with difficulty and it could be argued that any cumulative increase in anthropogenic take is of biological significance. Irrespective of whether the significance of the impact to the population could be determined, it was thought useful to consider the evidence behind the mechanisms of any known effects and impacts in order to help identify key gaps in the evidence base. It was hoped this would lead to recommendations on the direction of future research.