The Strait of Gibraltar is located in the southwestern extreme of Spain. This area separates southernmost Spain from northernmost Morocco and represents the shortest distance between continental Europe and North Africa (approximately 14 km), acting as an obligatory crossing point for most soaring bird migrants from Western Europe. Almost half a million soaring birds and 3050 million small birds cross the Strait of Gibraltar every year to and from their winter quarters in Africa (Migres Foundation, unpublished data). The weather of the region is characterised by strong easterly and westerly winds that blow on approximately 85 of autumn days and typicallygust to over 100 km per hour (Bernis 1980). Favourable climatic conditions mean that the Strait of Gibraltar is one of four areas in Spain with the greatest potential for producing wind energy and contributes 21 of the installed wind power in Spain (www.agenciaidea.es).;Besides being an important migration site, the Strait of Gibraltar is a breeding area for several soaring bird species (Table 8.3). Of these, only Egyptian Vulture, Bonellis Eagle, Montagus Harrier and Lesser Kestrel are classed as endangered species in Spain. Natural vegetation in the study area is characterised by brushwood and Wild Olive Olea europaea var. sylvestris and Cork Oak Quercus suber woodland dotted with scrub and rocky areas on the mountain ridges. In contrast, in the lower areas large treeless plains predominate, which are devoted to nonirrigated cereal cultivation and extensive grasslands for cattle grazing.;A number of wind farms, containing a total of 269 wind turbines with different power ratings and beginning operation between 2005 and 2007, have been studied intensively. Trained observers search for dead birds on a daily basis, with a fixed effort within the surveillance programme conducted annually every day of the year (365 days) from dawn to dusk. This high search effort reduces the need to apply corrections for search efficiency and scavenger removal in the case of medium to largesized birds such as soaring birds in the study area. Among other things, data recorded consists of the date, species and number of individuals that collided with turbines. This surveillance programme has included selective stopping of turbines when dangerous situations are detected, thereby reducing the mortality rate of the main species affected by wind farms in the study area.;Table 8.3 Soaring bird species colliding at wind farms and their breeding period in the study area.