Using the observed relationships, models were developed and the importance of the following scenarios was explored (1) no recent fire history or turbines (2) recent fire history and no turbines (3) no recent fire history and turbines present and (4) recent fire history and turbines present. Stochastic dynamic model simulations were run for 15 years (780 weeks). Total vertebrate species richness including herpetofauna demonstrated resilience to periodic fire cycles of 5 years. However, when simulations considered the installation of two turbines per plot that degraded 1 of the original vegetation,total vertebrate species richness at week 400 declined by approximately 20 relative to reference conditions. Adding fire to the simulation with turbine installation again demonstrated resilience to the former stressor but total vertebrate richness was reduced in a  more permanent way by decreasing the reference value.;The authors concluded that disturbances caused by wind farm installation are a significant issue influencing vertebrate species richness, including herpetofauna. Specifically, richness declines under simulations involving wind farms, and this was attributed mainly to ground disturbance and structural habitat changes caused during turbine installation.;Largescale wind energy development requires significant material acquisition and processing to provide and maintain infrastructure. Obtaining copper for wire, iron and steel for infrastructure, and the rareearth element neodymium for generator magnets, requires substantial mining operations that affect herpetofauna and their habitats in areas that are often far removed from the actual wind farm. For example, iron mining is known to affect amphibian diversity (Krishnamurthy 2003). Other than neodymium, most of the metals are readily available in large quantities in the USA and the relative contribution of wind farms to their overall consumption was small in 2008 (Wilburn 2011). Nevertheless, to achieve a market goal of 20 of generated electricity from onshore wind energy by 2030, Wilburn (2011) estimated that it would require annual production of 6.8 million tonnes of concrete, 1.5 million tonnes of steel, 310,000 tonnes of iron, 40,000 tonnes of copper and 380 tonnes of neodymium. As noted by Lovich and Ennen (2013a), neodymium mining at the only commercially significant source of the metal in the USA has resulted in radioactive spills that affected Agassizs Desert Tortoise habitat. Any mining also requires access by dirt roads, with attendant negative effects on herpetofauna (Andrews et al. 2008 Lovich 2015b), as discussed in more detail below.