The longerterm intensive study of particularly vulnerable species provides the potential to detect populationscale impacts, with the effect of the additional mortality from collisions being easier to measure than the effect of displacement on individual fitness through changes in survival or reproductive output. To date, it is not clear if individuals displaced from wind farms are lost to the population as a result of density dependence or manage to breedelsewhere. A general inability to define what constitutes the population or biologically significant change also hampers the detection of populationscale impacts. At this stage, the most acute risk of an impact resulting from additional collision mortality from a wind farm or farms would appear to be on a small, local population, much as it is from any factor exacerbating mortality rate such as predation, persecution or disease. However, some studies are beginning to illustrate much larger, even continental scale impacts.;In the absence of definitive empirical evidence, modelling population trends with and without effect may be key to understanding the likely scale of impact. How this may be achieved is reviewed by Smales in Chapter 3 in Volume 2. Modelling does, however, rely on at least basic information on critical population parameters. The reader may be astonished that such information is missing for many bat species, which points to another critical avenue of future research.;Populationscale effects are intuitively much more likely in a cumulative context, and although cumulative effects are of key concern for migratory species in particular, studies are almost totally lacking. The means of determining the potential and scale of cumulative effects are urgently required. Only the recent studies on bats in Germany (Voigt et al. 2012, Lehnert et al. 2014 see Hein, Volume 2, Chapter 2) and on Golden Eagles in the USA (Katzner et al. 2016) provide clear evidence of the wideranging origins of collision victims. This demonstrates both a critical need for a strategic approach to conservation over international boundaries in combination with effective mitigation strategies for birds and bats (May et al., Chapter 6 Smallwood, Chapter 7 Arnett, Chapter 8 all in Volume 2).;Whereas collision of birds or bats and the displacement of birds are typically seen as the most important effects of wind farms, this need not necessarily be true. Such is the typical scale of habitat modification undertaken during construction coupled with the modification of the microclimate during operation, the installation of a wind farm will invariably have ecological consequences, most of which will probably never be detected, simply because no one is looking. Significant effects, especially upon vegetation and poorly studied groups such as invertebrates or herpetofauna (if present), may be being missed. Thus, charting the response of a number of trophic levels to determine effects within the foodweb is more than simply of academic interest. Detailed knowledge of conditions before the site is built is essential. A more holistic approach to