This final chapter in Volume 1 attempts to synthesise the findings of the preceding chapters as a platform for Volume 2 in the series, which outlines the monitoring tools available and the means ofmitigating the principal impacts. Whilst this synthesis fundamentally relies on the material presented and conclusions reached by the expert authors of the chapters, an attempt is also made to explore any ramifications of the points made and, in particular, to establish any links between groups, such as flying insects and bats, that may enhance insight into, and understanding of, a particular issue. It was hoped that this could be useful in suggesting further lines of future research. Furthermore, the authors have generally rightfully limited themselves to peerreviewed contributions in papers as well as in proceedings or book chapters as the gold standard for veracity (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6). However, in order to provide a more complete picture of the work currently being undertaken, this chapter also provides some information from other contributions in reports or on websites, especially if this helps increase knowledge of what has, and what could be, achieved.;The scope of virtually all chapters in this volume was global, but information was of course limited by the scope of the studies undertaken to date, which are intensely focused on Europe and North America. The prevailing concept was to learn from these experiences and do better in developing nations, such as in the tropics, where much biodiversity is based, where the impacts may be far more significant than in temperate, developed countries with an impoverished biodiversity (see Hayhow et al. 2016 for the UK) and where many ecosystems do not function naturally. In line with this idea, there are emerging markets for wind power in Brazil and a number of African countries including Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa (Reid et al. 2015). As outlined by Vella in Chapter 1, at the time of writing, China is actually the world leader for wind power (30), the vast majority of which is generated onshore (97.5). India is ranked fifth. Unfortunately, the entire volume contains no information on the effects of wind farms upon wildlife in China or India, emphasising the importance of the extrapolation of concepts and potential effects to foster and stimulate highquality impact assessment and research in these regions. As an aside, the point should be made that concerted efforts to collaborate with researchers, assessors and developers in such large markets for wind should be initiated perhaps through the CWW series.