The decline of FPM populations has mostly occurred as aresult of the continuous failure to produce new generations owing to the loss of clean river substrates. It is a highly sensitive species that can be affected by any significant increase in fine silt or nutrients introduced into rivers where it occurs. Nutrients can cause filamentous algae to grow, and the subsequent decay of this algae is a primary source of fine silt in a watercourse. As wind farm construction works can release both silt and nutrients into receiving waters, this gives rise to conflicts with the need to protect FPM populations and their habitats. Several proposed wind farms in Ireland have failed to receive planning permission because of the presence of this species in downstream catchments.;It is clear that wind farms should not be located in areas where direct impacts on FPM populations would occur. This would include sites where mussels were present in a watercourse on the affected site and new or upgraded culverts or bridges would be required. It is also apparent that developments on sites with unstable peat and high gradients would be inappropriate if located in an FPM catchment. For wind farm developments suitable mitigation measures may be to provide an upstream buffer distance from any FPM population, avoid any developments on highgradient peat upstream of an FPM population, and adhere to strict erosion and sediment control measures on the site. It is possible that a wind farm site is already a source of silt into an FPM catchment and the implementation of erosion and sediment control measures in one area could potentially assist in the rehabilitation of a catchment for FPMs. Lands acquired or leased by wind farm developers present opportunities to implement measures to improve water quality in downstream areas. For example, blocking or renovating drains could reverse the effects of excessive drainage within an afforested site or agricultural lands.;Ecologically functioning buffer zones could be developed or a Habitat Management Plan for an area releasing nutrients could replace a previously overgrazed site, thereby reducing losses within a specific part of a catchment. The implementation of comprehensive Surface Water Management Plans to include retention of soils within the boundaries of wind farm sites and reducing the incidence of pollution will help to protect water quality within an FPM catchment. Measures such as those outlined in Altmller  Dettmer (2006), in particular, are recommended, whereby sediment trapping