Habitat fragmentation is a significant driver of species loss globally (Fischer  Lindenmayer 2007), and habitat loss andfragmentation are serious threats to herpetofauna populations (Nally  Brown 2001 Cushman 2006). There is no literature available to directly assess the impact of wind farmrelated fragmentation negatively impacting reptiles and amphibians, but any species that avoids vertical structures and needs large contiguous habitats will be at risk (Kiesecker et al. 2011). The literature suggests that wind farms have the potential to disrupt important gene flow corridors (Fischer  Lindenmayer 2007 Vandergast et al. 2013).;Abundant literature documents the effects of noise on wildlife (see review in Lovich  Ennen 2011). Noise pollution will be produced at wind farms, especially during the construction phase (Suter 2002), as well as during maintenance and operation stages (Lovich  Ennen 2013a). Two types of noise are produced during operation turbine machinery noise and blade swishing (Lovich  Ennen 2013a). Moreover, wind farms consistently generate noise from vehicle traffic and heavy machinery during certain maintenance periods. To the best of the authors knowledge, no study has assessed the effects of wind farmproduced noise on reptiles and amphibians. However, noise pollution has been shown to influence behaviour and cause irreparable damage to hearing in reptiles and amphibians and, therefore, industrial noise pollution from wind farms is likely to adversely impact herpetofauna. Brattstrom and Bondello (1983) reported that offroad vehicle noise of 110 dB caused hearing loss in Desert Iguanas Dipsosaurus dorsalis and fringetoed lizards Uma spp. Such a level may easily be reached at wind farms during construction and maintenance (Suter 2002). The same authors reported that vehicle noise caused the early emergence of aestivating spadefoot toads Scaphiopus spp.;Noise pollution can seriously affect acoustic communications of many wildlife species, especially frogs and toads. Although no study has directly assessed this effect in wind farms, several studies report that noise pollution (e.g. traffic noise) can impact anuran advertisement behaviour and detection of calls in a number of species (e.g. Lengagne 2008 Parris et al. 2009 VargasSalinas  Amzquita 2013), which should be applicable in the context of wind farms. Traffic noise can influence anuran call pitch (Parris et al. 2009), decrease males calling activity and frequency (Lengagne 2008 VargasSalinas  Amzquita 2013) and call rate (Sun  Narins 2005), and interfere with the capability of females to differentiate between the calls of males (Wollerman  Wiley 2002).