Destruction of existing vegetation can lead to important habitat loss and other parallel effects, such as the loss of important ecological processes and habitat fragmentation. While the actual landtake may be comparatively limited, the effects may be morewidespread where developments interfere with hydrological patterns or geomorphological processes, for example. The ecological processes are strongly tied to the vegetation and the habitat it creates. For example, peatlands containing important or priority habitats included in EU Habitats Directive Annex 1 are particularly sensitive and can be directly damaged by inappropriate siting of wind farms or their associated infrastructures, such as new or improved access roads (Box 3.2). Although the loss of vegetation may be relatively small, the conditions sustaining that habitat, such as high water content, may also be affected, and this can lead to indirect effects on adjacent habitats, resulting in a much larger affected area.;Much blanket peat is developed over smooth ground in very windy environments, and thus offers considerable potential for wind energy conversion. The habitat spans two Habitats Directive Annex 1 types, blanket bogs and depressions on peat substrates of the Rhynchosporion, with active blanket bog listed as a priority habitat. Dargie (2004) studied information based on environmental statements submitted for planning permission and impacts of a sample of wind farms on blanket peat habitats in Scotland.;Direct habitat loss and degradation occur through, for example, the excavation of peat, boulder clay or other glacial material to provide rock foundations for turbine bases. Dargie (2004) reported that for most of the excavations he studied, pumping on a daily basis was necessary, although exceptions existed for dry blanket peat types and where there had been low rainfall in the spring and early summer, which is often the period of turbine erection. Overall, it was thought that roads form the largest impact on blanket bog, including on hydrology. Floated roads will result in some compression and a probably modest change in hydraulic conductivity. Cut roads through blanket peat include a steepened upper slope, a side ditch, crossdrains at varying intervals and a zone of disturbance where water and occasional sediment is discharged. This is likely to result in drier conditions adjacent to much of the road corridor. Road design is important and substantial improvements to existing hill road types can be achieved to minimise any impacts.