A range of other pollutants can be released from a construction site, including substances such as fuels, lubricants, concrete waste and washings, and wastewater from site toilets and washing facilities. Hydrocarbons are persistent and toxic to aquatic life and have the potential to be released into watercourses as a result of accidental fuel or oil spillage or leakage from constructionequipment and vehicles, inappropriate storage or application of lubricants, or the careless use of construction chemicals. During turbine construction, large quantities of concrete are required for foundations and there is a potential risk of spillage and runoff from cement trucks transporting concrete from concrete batching plants, and also in the washing out of chutes from the transport trucks. Fresh concrete and cement are very alkaline and corrosive, and it is well known that any releases into watercourses can cause serious pollution (McNeill 1996 MastersWilliams et al. 2001). High pH solutions such as slurry or concrete washwater will attack the sensitive membranes of fish, including the gills and skin (Randall  Lin 1993 Cech 2003). Macroinvertebrates are also affected in similar ways by variation in pH (Courtney  Clements 1998). Although the potential effects of wind farm construction on water quality are well understood, there is an absence of published studies of actual effects. There is, however, unpublished evidence of severe impacts on aquatic organisms and their habitats during wind energy development construction, but these incidences are usually connected with the failure and slippage of overburden or peat (Lindsay  Bragg 2005 Dykes  Jennings 2011). Millidine et al. (2015) presents the results of a detailed investigation involving a BACI (BeforeAfter, ControlImpact) experimental design, which assessed the impacts of a wind farm development on the hydrochemistry and ecology of a tributary of the River Spey, Scotland. The study identified a small but significant negative effect of wind farm construction on stream acidity and buffering capacity, but there was no indication that either invertebrate community structure or fish densities were impacted by wind farm construction and the resulting effects on water quality. However, this wind farm development was relatively small scale, well managed, and located in an area where there was no deforestation before construction. Moreover, only small areas of deep peat occurred and there were no background environmental problems such as acidification. Millidine et al. (2015) concluded that these elements limited the potential for disturbance and highlighted the importance of catchment characteristics in determining the response of streams to wind farm developments.