Of vital importance is to assess the longterm consequences of fatalities on local and migratory bat populations. It is likely that data exist to determine whether populations are stable, but modelling populations will also be useful. For this, cumulative effects must be considered, rather than the wind farm by wind farm approach that has been the focus to date. The cumulative impactapproach can only be accomplished by understanding the geographic ranges, movement patterns and sizes of bat populations, whether they are migratory or sedentary, active year round or hibernating. Researchers also need basic life history data regarding the vital (birth and death) rates of the species most affected by wind turbines.;To date, virtually all the data and research involves temperate, insectivorous species of bats. There is a critical need for research in areas with wind farms and high bat diversity to establish whether the patterns found in Europe and North America also occur in other regions. Are fruit and nectarfeeding bats affected by wind farms, and if so, what are the consequences for the ecological services of pollination and seed dispersal that such bats provide? In such areas, as well as in North America and Europe, the ecological and economic consequences of bat fatalities on insect populations, including pest species, need to be quantified.;Virtually all of the studies to date regarding bats and wind energy have focused on large, industrialscale wind farms with large turbines. More recently, small wind turbines for use by individuals or businesses have become popular (e.g. Minderman et al. 2015). There is evidence that bats react to these turbines and some are killed (Minderman et al. 2012 2015), and more studies are necessary to determine the potential impact and means of reducing it.;We thank Chenghan Chou, Ron Larkin and Jesika Reimer for permission to cite their unpublished work, and Cris Hein and M. Brock Fenton for providing photographs for use in this chapter.;Ahln, I., Baage, H.J.  Bach, L. (2009) Behavior of Scandinavian bats during migration and foraging at sea. Journal of Mammalogy 90 1318 1323.