The construction of wind farms potentially threatens important natural assests, such as rare habitats and plant species. Unfortunately, there are very few specific studies on the impacts of wind farms on vegetation compared to fauna such as birds and bats, to assess the scale of the issue. As a result, the authors consulted several Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies available online conducted in different countries around the world, and made a brief analysis of the negative effects on vegetation evaluated, although these were rarely the focus of the EIA. The consensus was that direct effects related to the removal of vegetation and destruction of protected plant species and indirect effects of disturbance may obviously operate during construction, but in operation, impacts may also originate from more subtle effects like the deposition of dust on vegetation and genetic pollution. The most commonly cited and potentially significant effects were then discussed in more detail using related information in the literature. It was concluded that it is not unlikely that impacts could lead to loss of biodiversity at a regional scale, particularly taking into account the effects that invasive flora can have upon native vegetation, and consequently this should not be considered as a minor detail in impact assessment. The general lack of basic information about natural features present in potential wind farm sites appears to be partly responsible for a more rigorous evaluation of effects. Owing to the uniqueness of some habitats and species and the danger that alien species pose to biodiversity, appropriate methods to minimise possible impacts must be defined and action taken with the support of appropriate monitoring. The end of construction does not necessarily mean that vegetation can readily return to its original state, and landscape restoration is oftenundertaken. However, careful planning must ensure this does not lead to colonisation by invasive plants and genetic pollution.;As the basis of ecosystems, vegetation communities reflect site specific climatic, physiographic, edaphic and biotic features. The composition and level of development of vegetation determine the diversity of dependent sensitive flora, fauna and fungi. Thus, local biodiversity may oscillate depending on the condition and state of preservation of the vegetation. A decline in biodiversity may have consequences for ecosystem function and the ecosystem services that are provided (Balvanera et al. 2006). Hence, vegetation is of inherently high value at the ecosystem level. The ecosystem services provided by vegetation are manifold, including soil formation and retention, water cycle regulation and water retention, nutrient cycle regulation, carbon sequestration and prevention of catastrophic events, as well as the provision of resources such as wood, timber, pasture and foodstuffs such as mushrooms (European Commission 1992).;Flora and vegetation also have intrinsic conservation value. According to the Red List of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN 2014), there are 10,584 threatened plant species globally, 240 of which are extinct or possibly extinct. In Europe, the Habitats Directive European Union (EU) 1992 aims to protect over 80 habitat types and 180 higher plant species. Such species also have a unique genetic patrimony that can be useful at a commercial, medical and ethnobotanic (cultural, spiritual and ornamental) level.;Wind energy is a relatively recent type of development that has undergone a marked expansion in many countries (Drewitt  Langston 2006). Despite the many environmental benefits provided by wind power, wind farms potentially threaten important natural habitats and species, particularly in areas with high wind availability such as mountains and sand dunes. A detrimental effect on endangered species and habitats may have significant consequences for biodiversity at a local or regional level (Silva et al. 2011).