Invasive species such as Australian Acacia spp. (Gibson et al. 2011 Le Maitre et al. 2011) are characterised by their ability to rapidly increase abundance and distribution, typically through the production of large numbers of seeds and other propagules, with the potential to modify the character, condition, form or nature of the invaded ecosystems, causing longlasting changes (Richardson et al. 2000). According to Delivering Alien Invasive Species Inventories for Europe (DAISIE 2008), 6,658 terrestrial plant species have beenclassified as alien in one part of Europe or another.;Impacts of invasive plants on biodiversity can be extensive and occur at several levels, such as the alteration of soil nutrient levels, soil pH, litter decomposition rates and the hydrological cycle and the production, abundance, diversity and behaviour of communities (FuentesRamrez et al. 2010 Vil et al. 2011). Species fitness and growth can be affected, resulting in a significant decline in native species richness (Gaertner et al. 2009). The reduction in the presence of natives resulting in direct changes in seed rain can modify the native seed bank composition (Gioria et al. 2012). Many of these effects can be persistent, as they hinder or even prevent the establishment of native species long after the removal of the invasive species (DAntonio  Meyerson 2002 Lorenzo et al. 2010 Marchante et al. 2011).;Although the spread of alien flora is one of the major impacts affecting vegetation communities and has been receiving increasing attention (Richardson  Pysek 2006 Richardson  Kluge 2008), it is commonly considered to be a minor problem during EIA and sometimes little work is done to minimise or prevent this impact (Passos et al. 2012). This understates the importance of this permanent impact, the effects of which may have serious consequences on biodiversity at local and regional levels (Le Maitre et al. 2011). In wind farms specifically, recently disturbed areas, particularly during the construction phase, may provide optimal locations for the installation and proliferation of invasive plant species (Gibson et al. 2011 Le Maitre et al. 2011) as a result of the germination of propagules accidentally introduced in topsoil from locations other than the project area, or unintentionally carried by people or vehicles. The proliferation of invasive alien plant species has often been poorly assessed (Silva et al. 2011). However, in some countries, such as Portugal, increasing awareness about invasive plants has motivated a desire to avoid or minimise the problem in the early stages of the EIA process (Box 3.3). The information gathered during early EIA stages allows the planning of future actions and the avoidance of greater problems in the future (Passos et al. 2012 2013). In this phase it is important to establish which alien species exist in the project area and where exactly they are located. Accurate species identification and specific mapping are fundamental tools that can make a difference in curbing the spread of an invasion, as it allows control actions to be planned in advance (Passos et al. 2012 2013 Marchante et al. 2014).