From May 2004 to March 2007, 198 plots (250 x 250 m) were sampled for vertebrates using timeconstrained searches and hand collecting. Plots included both disturbed and undisturbed sites that were 02,000 m from the nearest turbine or associated structure. Studies were concurrent with the construction of four wind farms comprised of 27 monopole turbines (20042006) that were either 60 or 80 m tall. Six species of amphibians were encountered, including a toad (Bufo bufo), two frogs (Rana perezi and R. iberica) and three salamanders (Salamandra salamandra, Triturus boscai and Chioglossa lusitanica). The 11 species of reptiles collectedincluded eight lizards (Lacerta schreiberi, L. lepida, Podarcis sp., P. bocagei, P. hispanica, Psammodromus algirus, Chalcides striatus and Anguis fragilis) and three snakes (Coronella girondica, Elaphe scalaris and Malpolon monspessulanus).;Environmental variables measured in each plot were species richness, floral richness and diversity, elevation, slope, vegetation height and cover, shrubland and herbaceous cover, distance to nearest turbine in plot, number of turbines in a plot, mean distance to turbines in a plot, number of turbines and mean distance to turbines in a circular 28.27 ha buffer zone, and the percentage of degraded habitat in a plot caused by installation of turbines and associated structures. Scenarios considered in their stochastic dynamic methodology modelling included plots with (1) no recent fire history or turbines, (2) recent fire history and no turbines, (3) no recent fire history and turbines present, and (4) recent fire history and turbines present.;Stepwise multiple regression identified significant relationships between logtransformed environmental variables and species richness. Based on annual data, amphibian richness was significantly related to total vegetation cover and mean distance to turbines in the buffer zone. Reptile richness was associated with environmental variables unrelated to turbines. Examining seasonal influences, and excluding periods when no amphibians (summer) or reptiles (winter) were detected, there were significant relationships between reptile richness and percentage area degraded by wind farm installation in the spring, and reptile richness and elevation, distance to nearest turbine, mean distance to turbines in the plot, number and mean distance to turbines in the buffer, and percentage area degraded by wind farm installation in the summer. During the autumn, no significant multiple regressions were found for herpetofauna and variables related to wind farm installation.;Using the observed relationships, models were developed and the importance of the following scenarios was explored (1) no recent fire history or turbines (2) recent fire history and no turbines (3) no recent fire history and turbines present and (4) recent fire history and turbines present. Stochastic dynamic model simulations were run for 15 years (780 weeks). Total vertebrate species richness including herpetofauna demonstrated resilience to periodic fire cycles of 5 years. However, when simulations considered the installation of two turbines per plot that degraded 1 of the original vegetation,