The construction of one wind farm in addition to another constitutes a cumulative impact. Incombination impacts may result from other human activities such as forestry and agriculture occurring alongside wind farm development. Many proposed wind farm sites bring with them many of the potential impacts outlined in the previous sections above, and there will be further pressure by building a wind farm in areas already subject to other anthropogenic activity. For example, constructing a wind farm in an upland area in winter while forestry operations are ongoing may cause significant incombination water quality impacts. Although the potential effect of a wind farm on recipient aquatic ecosystemscan be broadly predicted, there are no actual published studies available on the cumulative and incombination effects of wind farms on aquatic organisms.;Although there is a general absence of published studies, it can be concluded that the potential impacts of wind farms on the aquatic environment are similar to those that occur during other construction projects and land use changes. As such, the types of mitigation that may be required are also similar to those used on other construction projects. The main conflicts between wind farms and aquatic organisms arise during the construction phase, although effects are also likely to occur to a lesser extent during the operation and decommissioning phases. Millidine et al. (2015) noted that the persistence of construction phase impacts is currently unknown. The potential impact on water quality is the main issue for wind farm developments and it has been shown that there is also the potential for significant changes in physical habitat structure and geomorphological processes, as well as habitat loss and fragmentation. For example, there are past examples of major landslides associated with wind farm construction projects profoundly altering aquatic ecosystems.;To accurately assess the impact of a proposed wind farm development and to inform effective mitigation, the provision of accurate baseline data on the receiving environment in terms of water quality, fisheries and aquatic ecology is essential. All watercourses draining a proposed wind farm development, and within the zone of influence, need to be assessed appropriately. Survey methods employed include aquatic habitat surveys (e.g. Barbour  Stribling 1991 Environment Agency 2003), fish surveys using electric fishing (e.g. Harvey  Cowx 2003 Temple  Pearsons 2007) (Figure 5.5), aquatic macroinvertebrate surveys (e.g. Barbour et al. 1999 AlbaTercedor 2006) and baseline water quality assessments. The detection of the presence of sensitive, rare or protected aquatic species is of particular importance. Where wind farm sites drain into conservation sites this may require additional assessments, for example Appropriate Assessment under Article 6 of the EU Habitats Directive for proposed wind farm sites draining into Natura 2000 river catchments.