One of the early hypotheses as to why bats are killed at turbines was that they are attracted to insects that congregate or accumulate there (Kunz et al. 2007). Given that echolocating bats detect insects only at close range, typically less than 10 m (Altringham 2011), the insectattraction hypothesis either involves bats encountering insects at turbines and then staying to feed, or being attracted, from a distance, to turbines because tall structures, such as trees, are sites at which insects accumulate (i.e. on the lee side) or congregate (e.g. mating swarms of hilltopping species) (Alcock 1987). Insects may be attracted by the light colour of turbine towers (Long et al. 2011). Another possibility is that bats are attracted to the echolocation calls of other feeding bats (Barclay 1982). The increase in batactivity at turbines would increase the risk and fatality rate. Given the seasonal peak in fatalities, this hypothesis requires that there is a change in distribution of insects such that they are more common at turbines at the time when most bats are killed, and that this is consistent across many habitats and locations.;In support of the feeding hypothesis, migrating Hoary Bats killed at turbines have been recorded with full stomachs, indicating they had fed on the night they were killed (Reimer et al. 2010 Valdez  Cryan 2013). In Europe, Behr et al. (2007) made similar observations of Common Pipistrelles and Leislers Bats Nyctalus leisleri with fresh insect remains in their stomachs. In addition, several species of bats shift their foraging to more open, higher locations late in the summer (e.g. Staton  Poulton 2012), perhaps because of changes in insect abundance at different heights (Rydell et al. 2010b). One study using thermal imaging cameras detected bats feeding in the bladeswept area (Horn et al. 2008).;There are also studies that provide evidence contrary to the insectattraction hypothesis. For example, not all bats killed by turbines have full stomachs indicative of recent feeding (Grodsky et al. 2012 Hull  Cawthen 2013), and no insects were found in the mouths or throats of killed bats by Valdez and Cryan (2013), suggesting that they had not fed immediately before being killed. In addition, no feeding behaviour was detected at turbines by Cryan et al. (2014) and Rydell and Wickman (2015), and in another study, there did not appear to be an unusually high amount of feeding activity (as measured by echolocation feeding buzzes) at turbines (J. Reimer, personal communication 2015). Lastly, most of the insects consumed by migrating Hoary Bats before they were killed were not those expected to swarm or accumulate at turbines (Reimer et al. 2010).;Fatalities are not simply a random sample of the bats in a region. To understand the potential population and ecological implications of these fatalities, and to inform actions to reduce the impact of wind energy on bats, we need to understand the variation in fatality rates across many scales. Estimated fatality rates of bats at wind farms vary in many ways. The most obvious of these is variation among wind farms, with some recorded estimates being less than 1 bat per turbine per year and others being more than 50 bats per turbine per year (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008 AVES 2010 Rydell et al. 2012). However, fatality rates vary in general within and among wind farms, and within and among species of bats. Despite this, and the