According to the analysis above (see Factors affecting bird collisions) and Htker et al. (2006) and Madders and Whitfield (2006), birds of prey have been noted to be more prone to collision with wind turbines in comparison to other bird groups. Loss et al. (2013) stated that determining whether individual bird species are vulnerable to population declines as a result of wind turbine collisions is a major conservation objective. As raptors are invariably an uncommon or rare component of bird communities, as well as being subject to historical decline through persecution,habitat loss and other factors, they are frequently of high conservation value and often strictly protected.;One such case is the Golden Eagle population of APWRA studied by Hunt (1995). In this study, of 56 radiotagged eagles of a range of ages (adults, subadults and juveniles), two subadults were recovered dead from collision with wind turbines. The authors suggested that determining the population significance of turbine related mortality would require an increased sample of radiotagged eagles, several more years of monitoring survival and knowledge of the reproductive rate. The study was subsequently continued until the end of 1997 (Hunt 1999), by which time 179 eagles (juveniles, subadults, floaters and breeders) had been tagged, of which 23 were recovered dead from collision with wind turbines. One conclusion of the study was that breeding eagles rarely entered the wind farm area, whereas nonterritorial eagles tended to move freely throughout the study area, often visiting the wind farm. Two survival models were developed, with similar results that the eagle population was most affected by changes in adult survival and least affected by variation in juvenile survival and reproduction. Hunt (2002) continued working on population models and calculated a potential growth rate of 1.0047. However, this did not imply stability, the latter being the effect of a floater reserve sufficient to comfortably buffer the breeding segment of the population against decline. The findings indicated that the breeding population of Golden Eagle within the vicinity of wind farms remained intact, although turbines continued to kill birds (Hunt  Hunt 2006). In a similar vein, there is no evidence for a population effect of turbine collisions upon Griffon Vultures in southern Spain (Box 8.2).;In contrast, there is evidence of an effect of wind farm mortality upon the Whitetailed Eagle population, at least within the wind farm itself, on the island of Smla in Norway (Dahl et al. 2012 2013) (Box 8.4). Similarly, in an analysis of the viability of the endangered Egyptian Vulture population in Spain, Carrete et al. (2009) showed that breeding pairs tended to overlap and although the population of the species is generally decreasing, this decrease is deeper in areas with wind farms. Overall, they predicted a significant increase in the probability of extinction due to wind farm collisions. On the other hand, GarcaRipolls and LpezLpez (2011) reanalysed population viability for the Egyptian Vulture under different scenarios including wind farm mortality and concluded that the effects of installation of wind farms were lower than predicted.