Neil Kelley of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (Kelley et al. 2004) collected temperature and heat flux data from meteorological towers upwind and downwind of a wind farm in the San Gorgonio Pass in California that were later studied by Walsh Thomas et al. (2012). The temperature data subsequently analysed and presented by Baidya Roy and Traiteur (2010) provided the first known surfacebased microclimate measurements of temperature in the vicinity of a wind farm. A strong cooling effect during the day of nearly 4C from an upwind temperature of 38C was reported. Baidya Roy and Traiteur (2010) then used a regional model to simulate the impact of nearsurface lapse rates, hubheight wind speeds, turbulence kinetic energy and energy dissipation on near surface temperature in the wind farm. It is noted, however, that no measurements were obtained from inside the wind farm and no information is given about differences in surface, soil or vegetation conditions within compared to outside the wind farm, which may have contributed to heating and cooling differences.;Baidya Roy (2011) extended the modelling work of Baidya Roy and Traiteur (2010) by use of a regional model incorporating a rotor parameterisation to study the possible impacts of wind farms on local nearsurface air temperature and humidity as well as surface sensible and latent heat fluxes. The directions of the fluxes depend on the static stability and total water mixing ratio lapse rates of the atmosphere. Notably, Baidya Roy (2011) showed that simulated wind farm impacts on temperature and humidity can persist for approximately 20 km downwind.;Fiedler and Bukovsky (2011) explored the potential climatic impact of wind farms on rainfall in another modelling exercise. They found that a hypothetical wind farm covering the Great Plains in the USA would affect climate by enhancing warmseason rainfall by about 1 in the near vicinity and several tens of kilometres downwind of such a wind farm. They discuss how smaller wind farms could have large, but isolatedinspaceandtime precipitation consequences due to the butterfly effect (Lorenz 1979), a mathematical possibility for a nonlinear system. However, they point out that such incidents would be likely to have inconsequential impacts on climate and hence microclimate outside the wind farm. A report by Takle et al. (2014), based on both a wind farm model and field observations, provides evidence that wind farms create horizontal flow convergence at the surface, which is a supporting ingredient for the development of cloudiness and precipitation.