Modelling studies help to reveal physical processes and possible locations of such teleconnections, as was shown for the influence of tropical deforestation on midlatitude rainfall (Avissar  Werth 2005 Hasler et al. 2009). There is speculation that large collections of dozens to hundreds of thousands of turbines may influence mesoscale atmospheric processes, that is, processes such as cloudiness or precipitation patterns on the scale of a European country or a state within the USA.;A full understanding of threedimensional physical processes in a wind farm requires a computational fluid dynamics model with capabilities for simulating both the aerodynamics and thermodynamics of the region within and outside the wind farm. Such models resolve fine scales of motion when airflow interacts with turbines and realistically simulates the turbinegenerated turbulence as it moves downstream to interact with other turbines and surfacebased ecosystems. Experimental versions of such models are now being developed (e.g. Mirocha et al. 2015).;The aim of this chapter was to build a conceptual model to describe the physical processes that allow wind farms to create their own microclimates. However, a systematic survey of the available published literature revealed that in situ wind farm measurements of microclimate have been made at only one location a central Iowa wind farm (Rajewski et al. 2013 2014). Other relevant studies include a few ontheground studies conducted in the near vicinity of wind farms, involving wind and temperature measurements in the prevailing upwind and downwind directions relative to the wind farm being studied. In most of these studies key factors affecting the wind farm microclimate were not reported. Examples include whether turbines were operating at full power, zero power or something between, and whether agricultural or other landuse operations such as grazing, irrigation and vegetation management activities that potentially would impact temperature, moisture or CO2 changes were being conducted during the measurement period. A second category of wind farm climate studies includes analyses of satellite images taken at specific times of day that provide a snapshot of surface radiating temperature conditions from areas covered by wind farms. A third type of study that has relevance to wind farm microclimate conditions is modelling of wind farms through the use of numerical models and wind tunnels. These