Studies on the impacts of wind power on the abundance of terrestrial mammals (excluding bats) in wind farms are few and show varying results. Studies on disturbance from noise and visual cues from wind turbines are particularly scarce, and the results are inconclusive. Nevertheless, a significant but temporary avoidance of wind farms during construction has been reported for large carnivores and ungulates. Studies addressing the effects of disturbance from the maintenance and operation of wind farms are nearly absent, but studies on similar types of roads and traffic in gas fields indicate some avoidance of the roads, even those with very low traffic. Another aspect of roads is that they may increase public access, with traffic potentially exceeding that required for maintenance, and a potential increase also in outdoor recreation and offroad vehicles. Large carnivores and ungulates are known to be particularly sensitive to these types of human disturbances. Roads and power lines associated with wind power can also function as barriers to movement for both smaller and larger species, or conversely roads can act as corridors for movement. Habitat conversion may also benefit some species by providing denning habitat, forage or prey. The total effects of wind farms on nonflying terrestrial mammals are expected to depend on species, degree of habituation, landscape type and pressure from existing human influence in the area, and are therefore difficult to predict. Particular concern is raised for larger mammals as current onshore wind power development can target refugia for large carnivores or important grazing or migration areas for ungulates. Efforts should be made to minimise the negative effects on these species as aprecautionary principle. New research and scientifically based monitoring will strengthen the knowledge base and build a foundation for avoiding negative effects.;While the effects of wind power development on birds and bats are relatively well studied (e.g. Langston  Pullan 2003 Kunz et al. 2007 see also Chapters 79 in this volume), there is a dearth of studies on the potential effects on terrestrial mammals other than bats (Helldin et al. 2012 Lovich  Ennen 2013). Similarly, or as a consequence thereof, the effects on terrestrial mammals are largely overlooked in impact assessments of wind farms (Helldin et al. 2012). This lack of information is worrying, since many species are of conservation importance under formal protection, provide ecosystem services (as game animals or due to their ecological functions) or have cultural value.;As pointed out elsewhere in this volume, the potential influence of wind power development on wildlife is not limited to turbine fatalities. A wind farm requires a substantial infrastructure in the form of access roads with associated traffic, pads and other cleared areas, and power lines. All of these may cause disturbance, habitat change and fragmentation, with detrimental effects on wildlife as a result (Arnett et al. 2007). Disturbance is expected to be particularly severe during construction and decommissioning. Consequently, inference about the effects of wind farms can be drawn from the general knowledge of the corresponding impacts from other forms of exploitation and disturbance e.g. Forman  Alexander 1998 United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) 2001 Stankowich 2008.;Owing to the fragmentation effect, species that require large unfragmented habitats are particularly at risk from wind power development, and there is concern that previously undisturbed areas will be exploited (Kiesecker et al. 2011). In northern European countries such as Sweden and Finland, there is a general concern that remote uplands and forests are a target for new onshore wind farms (Swedish Energy Agency 2008) areas that may serve as refugia for large carnivores or as important grazing or migration areas for ungulates (Figure 10.1). There seems to be a similar trend in other countries in southeastern Europe (lvares et al. 2011). In the same vein, wind energy developments in the western USA often coincide with crucial winter habitat for ungulates such as