Furthermore, migrants may make a single pass through or near to a wind farm, whereas local birds undertake repeat movements, making them more susceptible to collision, especially if they habituate to the presence of the operational turbines. In this sense, in Flanders, most collisions were the result of regular flights of local gulls to and from their roost sites, with the highest passage around dusk and dawn (Everaert 2014), and flight movements of local gulls and terns near a breeding colony (Everaert  Stienen 2007).;In contrast, in the case of Red Kite in Germany, Schaub (2012) concluded that if wind turbines were placed along migratory routes, in particular at specific points where many individuals concentrated on migration such as mountain passes, this could increase mortality. Moreover, an increase in the number of wind farms in a preferred migratory habitat could result in cumulatively higher energetic costs during migration if the presence of turbines causes birds to alter their flight paths and make use of subsidised lift (Drewitt  Langston 2006). Using altitudinal Global Positioning System (GPS) data collected from Golden Eagles tracked by satellite telemetry, Katzner et al. (2012) tried to evaluate the potential impacts of wind turbines on raptors along migratory routes and detected that birds engaged in local movements turned more frequently and flew at lower altitude than during active migration, potentially exposing them to greater risk of collision with turbines than when engaged in longer distance movements. Resident birds also typically used areas that wind energy developers characterise as having highclass wind resources in a nonrandom manner, and were more likely to use this highquality wind than birds engaged in active migration.;Similarly, Miller et al. (2014) also tracked Golden Eagles to estimate their collision risk in three topographically distinct regions and developed a spatial modelbased framework. Their models showed that lowflying eagles consistently selected areas of high updraught potential. Southfacing slopes, which deflect south winds and generate springtime thermals, were associated with low altitude flight in most regions. However, because eagles selected resources based on the weather conditions they experienced when flying, other topographic resources were also important for migration. In a variable meteorological environment, the location of the best lift, and thus the location of the greatest risk, depends on the shape and roughness of the terrain. Their models implied that turbines along northsouth ridges pose a greater risk to spring migration eagles than turbines along the northeastsouthwest oriented ridges. This was because spring migrants moved almost directly north along these ridges until they reached the plateau,