Wind farms are rapidly developing in many areas of the world, and are generally located in windy areas (with wind speeds 20 kmh) (Pimentel et al. 2002) with available land, access roads, connection to a transmission line and acceptable environmental conditions (Serrano Gonzlez et al. 2014). Turbines are rapidly being installed in North America, Europe, China and Brazil to help meet rising energy demands. Most wind farms are sited in cultivated fields or in natural areas with short vegetation, such as prairie. An exception to this is the wind farms being built in Swedish boreal forests. Hilltops and mountains can be popular places for wind farms (Clarke 1989 Karydis 2013), in part because winds are oftenstronger and more reliable in these locations. Tropical localities, where invertebrates are most diverse, have seen little wind farm development. However, some invertebrates may have restricted distributions that overlap considerably with wind farms, potentially causing concern, as it is not yet known how wind farms may affect invertebrates. Furthermore, invertebrates can be locally abundant in the temperate zone where wind farm development is most common, and, given their diverse roles (i.e. as herbivores, pollinators, predators and detritivores), changes in these invertebrate communities could have pronounced topdown and bottomup trophic effects within ecosystems.;The aim of this chapter was to review the impacts of wind farm development on terrestrial invertebrates. The peerreviewed literature was searched for studies investigating terrestrial invertebrates near wind farms (Web of Science search, last performed on 7 December 2015 with keywords wind farm or wind turbine and invertebrate or insect), but no published peer reviewed studies were found that had measured invertebrate responses to wind farm development. Despite the growing literature on the effects of wind farms on birds and bats, very little is known about potential effects on invertebrates. Given this lack of research, this chapter instead outlines a host of potential impacts based on more general knowledge of ecological factors affecting invertebrate populations. This approach is not meant to be exhaustive but rather to help to establish a framework for future studies. The review is dominated by discussions of terrestrial insects because they are the most abundant and diverse of terrestrial invertebrates and so they have received the most attention. In addition, data on other invertebrate groups such as crustaceans, arachnids and molluscs are comparatively rare.