In theory, low levels of disturbance may not lead to any detectable changes in the distribution or abundance of animals. With birds in particular, low levels of disturbance may be expressed as changes in behaviour, such as increased vigilance in response to construction vehicles or human presence. At a higher level of disturbance, a change in temporal or spatial use of the wind farm may be exhibited by some species, thereby leading to avoidance and ultimately displacement from otherwise suitable habitat within or close to a wind farm.;Most studies of displacement have been undertaken on birds (Htker, Chapter 7). The very few studies on mammals focus on large ungulates, which show no obvious effect (Helldin et al., Chapter 10). The similarly scarce studies on small mammals, herpetofauna (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6) and invertebrates (Elzay et al. Chapter 4) have not specifically tested if displacement occurs. In fact, such small species are perhaps more likely to respond indirectly to changes in habitat conditions initiated by wind farms (see Foodweb effects below) rather than the turbines themselves, which they will be able to sense through noise, vibration or pressure changes, but are unlikely to be able to see and perceive as a threat. Bats, on the other hand, often appear to be attracted to turbines within wind farms for a range of possible reasons (Barclay et al. Chapter 9), but with serious consequences (see Collision with turbines below). For other mammals, especially carnivores and other species requiring undisturbed wilderness, it appears that it is not some aspect of the turbines or wind farm infrastructure that is the root of any disturbance that could lead to displacement, but rather the increased human presence that persists into operation (see above, Helldin et al., Chapter 10).;Even for birds, studies have not routinely distinguished between possible sources of disturbance from the turbines and thus the wind farm as a whole, such as noise, shadow effect or movement of the blades. Some studies suggest that the movement of the blades increases the magnitude of the disturbance, whereas others do not, with the standing structures being as equally scary as the structures with moving parts (e.g. Larsen  Guillemete 2007). It is probably a fear of moving structures that is manifested as a barrier effect, a specific form of displacement when birds typically in flight actively avoid entering the site and deviate around or even over it. Barrier effects have been recorded both during migration and in relation to more regular (commuting) flights from birds at least temporarily resident in the area (perhaps when breeding or wintering). Htker