2009). Although it is clear that large numbers of insects are killed on turbine blades, the effect of those losses on local insect populations has, to the authors knowledge, not yet been studied.;Aside from collisions with the turbines, invertebrates may regularly collide with moving vehicles because maintenance of wind turbines requires heavy use of wind farm access roads (Ardente et al. 2008). Collisions with vehicles can be an important cause of mortality for insects both in flight and on the road surface, with measurable effects on local populations (reviewed by Muoz et al. 2014). The most common insects killed on roads were Coleoptera (beetles), Diptera (true flies), Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths), Hymenoptera (bees, wasps and ants) and Odonata (dragonflies and damselflies) (Muoz et al. 2014). A study of butterflies in the UK showed that 0.67 of local butterfly populations were killed by collisions with vehicles (Munguira  Thomas 1992). Mortality rates due to vehicle collisions typically increased with traffic volume and road size, but more studies are needed to determine whether differences in road surfaces (i.e. paved or gravel) and vehicle speeds affect insect mortality rates (Muoz et al. 2014). Vehicles travelling at high speeds may create enough wind to catapult butterflies over the vehicle, thereby reducing collisions (McKenna et al. 2001). Some studies have found differences in mortality rates among form and between males and females of the same species. For example, in one study, smaller butterflies tended to have higher mortality rates along roads compared to larger species (Skrka et al. 2013). Furthermore, populations of invertebrate scavengers, such as beetles, may either increase near roads because roadkill augments food resources or be severely reduced because attraction to carcasses leads to the death of these scavengers. However, no studies were found that have investigated this question. Insects may perish after colliding with blades or owing to changes in pressure around the turbines. Similarly, insect carcasses may accumulate downwind of turbines and attract scavengers, including birds, small mammals and other insects. A pilot study in SE Wyoming, USA provides preliminary evidence for direct effects of wind turbines on insect populations (see Box 4.1).