Wind tunnel studies have a long history of providing new insight into aerodynamic flow mechanisms that are difficult or expensive to explore in the free atmospheric boundary layer (Vermeer et al. 2003 Chamorro  PortAgel 2009). Wind tunnel models represent smallscale physical replicas of actual wind farm layouts that are very useful for developing an understanding of the aerodynamics of wind farms. However, until recently, wind tunnel studies of wind farms have been limited to conditions of neutral thermal stratification and therefore have not contributed to the understanding of changes in wind farm microclimates. Reports by Chamorro and PortAgel (2010), Markfort et al. (2012) and Zhang et al. (2013a 2013b) extended previous thermally neutral flow simulations to include the effects of thermal stratification, including both stably stratified (by use of a cooled floor) and thermally convective (heated floor) boundary layers. These reports generally agree that the overall change in surface heat flux induced by wind farms is small. However, the rotation of the blades creates a highly asymmetric wake influence on surface heat flux, with the downwardmoving half of the wake having an opposite effect fromthe upwardmoving half. Applying this to the conceptual model in Figure 2.2 suggests that the wake will affect the microclimate heat and moisture fluxes differently on the right side of the wake compared to the left side. The field measurements of Rajewski et al. (2013 2014) confirmed different structures in the turbulence conditions across wakes that reach the ground over a Maize field. If a wind farm had a persistent wind direction it would be plausible to expect different microclimate conditions to exist at different positions leeward of turbines.;Numerical models that simulate the aerodynamics and thermodynamics of the atmosphere have provided insight on how wind farms may interact with regional and globalscale meteorological phenomena and perhaps even change the global or regional climate (Baidya Roy et al. 2004 Baidya Roy  Traiteur 2010 Baidya Roy 2011 Fiedler  Bukovsky 2011). Such models use simplistic representations of the wind farm in that they resemble forests of very tall trees with no transpiration capability and no difference in colour from the underlying surface. The aerodynamic effects of individual turbines are simulated by either an actuator disk (a permeable nonrotational obstacle to the flow) or, in the most sophisticated versions, rotating blades. In the latter models, blades individually extract mean kinetic energy from the wind and create small scales of turbulence and trailing vortices at the blade tips that resemble, with considerable detail, the aerodynamic flow features observed in wind tunnel models of turbine arrays. The most sophisticated rotating blade models are now beginning to add thermodynamic processes in the form of heating and cooling of air, as in the daynight cycle of a wind farm.;Baidya Roy et al. (2004) examined the impacts of wind farms on the subcontinental scale through a model simulation of the Great Plains region in the USA. They assumed that turbines convert mean kinetic energy resolved by the model into atmospheric turbulence kinetic energy as a byproduct of creating electrical energy. With a focus on summertime conditions, they found that turbines reduce winds at hub height level and enhance vertical mixing of momentum, heat and moisture. Typically, this dries the surface and reduces sensible heat flux in the model. Interaction with the surface in the model is most intense an hour or two before sunrise, at a time when the nocturnal lowlevel jet is strong enough to power the turbines and the surface is stably stratified from overnight cooling. The impact on evapotranspiration is judged to be small, although no mention is made of the vegetation type specified in the model for the growing period they simulated.