There is much concern over invasive alien plants as these may dominate and radically change natural vegetation communities (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3) and thus all other trophic levels from invertebrates through to reptiles and amphibians, birds and mammals. In Britain, the highly invasive Japanese Knotweed Fallopia japonica is seen to be a major problem for potential introduction to wind farms, as are various Acacia species in the Mediterranean (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3). In the USA, Sahara Mustard Brassica tournefortii has proved to be an issue in at least one wind farm (see Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6, Figure 6.5). Although any nonnative plant may be undesirable, there is probably an important distinction between invasive aliens and less pervasivenonnative plants. Outside of wind farms, Elzay et al. (Chapter 4) cite a range of studies that show nonnative vegetation may have neutral or even positive (especially where this bears nectar for pollinators such as bees), as well as negative effects upon invertebrates.;It is probably fair to say that much remains to be learned about the prospects and prevention of introduction and subsequent control of alien plants in wind farms. Nevertheless, it is widely recognised that substrates such as the gravel used to construct the roads or topsoil that may be spread to landscape the area, as well as the tyres, bodywork and attached mud of construction vehicles may all bring seeds and vegetative fragments of alien plant species into wind farms (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3). Other agents of transmission include humans (on shoes and clothing). Good practice demands carefully planned biosecurity measures (see Scottish Renewables et al. 2015), which may involve footbaths and specific washdown areas for vehicles. The range of aliens that may be introduced extends beyond plants and in one case cited by Scottish Renewables et al. (2015) a drivethrough wheel wash was used to prevent transmission of nonnative Signal Crayfish Pascifastacus leniusculus across river catchments as it is a carrier of crayfish plague Aphanomyces astaci that has decimated stocks of the native Whiteclawed Crayfish Austropotamobius pallipes in the UK. Although biosecurity measures are eminently sensible, the efficacy of particular methods does not appear to have been rigorously tested, especially in relation to wind farms.;Increased human use follows the inception of the development of an area as a wind farm, with this reaching a peak during construction and declining thereafter to light but regular use during operation. At that point, in more natural or seminatural landscapes at least in some parts of Europe, there may be an increase in use by the public undertaking recreational hiking and cycling, wildlife watching, dog walking and foraging for natural foods, all encouraged by the increase in accessibility as a result of the gravel road network. Helldin et al. (2010) suggest this is likely to contribute to a negative effect of wind farms in more remote areas upon large mammals such as herbivores and especially carnivores that do not tolerate human presence. It is possible similar effects could occur for more secretive bird species particularly when nesting. In North America, however, many wind farms are on private property and even where they are public lands, access may be discouraged by security patrols (S. Smallwood personal communication).