Impacts on vegetation are rarely the main issue in EIA. An obvious hindrance to the rigorous impact assessment is the general lack of basic information about the natural assets, even in protected areas. Outside these territories the existing knowledge base is even smaller, so when an EIA is conducted there is very little information about the area that is being studied. The lack of information on existing habitats could easily lead to superficial EIAs on the effects of the wind farm on vegetation. Although a full treatment was beyond the scope of this chapter, the objective was to review and document what are thought to be the more important effects and impacts. To achieve these goals, 36 EIA studies, conducted in 14 different countries from all around the world, were consulted. The review suggested that the EIA tends to raise a number of potentially important effects that could lead to impacts. A summary of theactivities in different phases of a wind farm leading to effects and potential impacts is shown in Table 3.4. The most wellknown negative effects on vegetation, caused by construction of wind farms, are essentially related to the removal of important vegetation andor important rare plant species and the proliferation of invasive alien species (Silva et al. 2011 Passos et al. 2013). Other less obvious effects, such as degradation of important habitat and flora in the surrounding area, deposition of dust on vegetation and consequent reduction of photosynthetic rate, genetic pollution and changes in atmospheric conditions and heat and water transfer at the soil surface, are also likely to occur. There is clear scope for negative effects to lead to a loss of biodiversity on a large scale and have at least a regional dimension, and consequently they should not be considered a minor detail in impact assessment. Nevertheless, EIA tends to conclude that effects will not be significant.;However, the actual significance of effects has not actually been demonstrated as, to the best of authors knowledge, the number of published papers that deal with the effect of wind farms on habitats, important plant species or plant biodiversity is extremely small (e.g. Lindsay  Bragg 2005 Fagndez 2008). This is especially the case in relation to the wealth of published surveys on wind farm construction and operation effects on fauna, especially studies of bird and bat fatalities and displacement (e.g. Chamberlain et al. 2006 Drewitt  Langston 2006 Barclay et al. 2007 Hull  Muir 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013 Marques et al. 2014). Clearly, more indepth monitoring of vegetation is routinely required, building on what has begun to occur in relation to the important issue of alien species in some countries such as Portugal, where monitoring has subsequently led to control (Box 3.3).;In relation to mitigation, any work to mitigate the impact of alien species generally has to be done after construction is completed (Silva et al. 2011). In contrast, any impacts regarding important vegetation types and particular species of flora are generally easier to avoid or minimise in the early stages rather than relying on the restoration of habitats and species after the event. The science of restoration ecology, which attempts to better understand the process of succession and use its principles to re establish natural terrestrial communities (Davy 2002), is becoming more important as human impacts on ecosystems are increasingly becoming more numerous and profound. Rehabilitation or restoration of disturbed areas is often undertaken in wind farm projects at the end of the construction phase and aims to minimise