The consistent peak in bat fatalities in late summerautumn can at least partially be explained by increased population sizes due to the addition of flying juveniles, and the migration of individualsthrough areas with wind farms. However, several hypotheses postulate that behavioural changes also increase the fatality risk of bats in late summerautumn.;Many species of bats, especially in temperate zones, mate during autumn. In some of the main species killed by turbines in Europe (e.g. Common Pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus, Particoloured Bat and Noctule Nyctalus noctula), males establish territories and perform aerial songflight displays in apparent attempts to attract females (e.g. Sluiter  van Heerdt 1966 Gerell  Lundberg 1985 Barlow  Jones 1997 Cryan 2008). In North America, two of the main species killed, Hoary Bat and Eastern Red Bat Lasiurus borealis, are solitary, and individuals need to find or attract mates. Cryan (2008) suggested that display behaviours may increase the fatality risk of such species in autumn. He hypothesised that mating displays or aggregations of these treeroosting bats may occur at tall trees, and that bats are attracted to turbines because they are tall structures that mimic tall trees.;Again, there are few data to test predictions stemming from this hypothesis. At least some Hoary Bats, Eastern Red Bats and Silver haired Bats Lasionycteris noctivagans found killed at turbines during autumn migration were sexually mature, including some juveniles, and some had recently mated (Cryan et al. 2012). In addition, a mating pair of Eastern Red Bats was found dead under a turbine (Solick et al. 2012). However, there are no observations at turbines of behaviours that may be associated with mating, and in one study in Alberta, Canada, no social calls of bats were recorded during autumn at turbines (J. Reimer, personal communication 2015). In addition, the peak in fatalities of the Particoloured Bat does not correspond to the timing of its song flights (Rydell et al. 2010b).;One of the early hypotheses as to why bats are killed at turbines was that they are attracted to insects that congregate or accumulate there (Kunz et al. 2007). Given that echolocating bats detect insects only at close range, typically less than 10 m (Altringham 2011), the insectattraction hypothesis either involves bats encountering insects at turbines and then staying to feed, or being attracted, from a distance, to turbines because tall structures, such as trees, are sites at which insects accumulate (i.e. on the lee side) or congregate (e.g. mating swarms of hilltopping species) (Alcock 1987). Insects may be attracted by the light colour of turbine towers (Long et al. 2011). Another possibility is that bats are attracted to the echolocation calls of other feeding bats (Barclay 1982). The increase in bat