The EU Renewable Energy Directive (EU 2009a) is the key policy driving renewables and a move to a lowcarbon economyin Europe. The directive sets a binding target of 20 final energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020. To achieve this, EU countries have committed to reaching national renewables targets set by the Directive, which are based on a number of factors, including the existing renewable energy generation in a country and its gross domestic product. These targets range from 10 in Malta to 49 in Sweden (EU 2009a). The Directive requires that EU countries prepare and adopt National Renewable Energy Action Plans outlining the actions they intend to take to meet their targets.;As a result of the Directive and the National Action Plans, REN21 reports that renewable energy projects represented 72 of new electricity generating capacity in 2013, which was the majority for the sixth consecutive year. This is in stark contrast to the situation a decade earlier, when conventional fossil fuel generation accounted for the majority of new capacity (REN21 2015).;The Climate Change Act 2008 and Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 set the UK commitments to reducing GHG emissions and includes key policies driving wind power. The Act puts a duty on the Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change to ensure that the net UK carbon account for the year 2050 is at least 80 lower than the 1990 baseline. The Act aims to enable the UK to become a lowcarbon economy and gives ministers powers to introduce the measures necessary to achieve a range of GHG reduction targets. An independent Committee on Climate Change has been created under the Act to provide advice to the UK Government on these targets and related policies.;The past decade has seen unprecedented deployment of wind power worldwide driven by renewable energy targets established in more than 160 countries Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century (REN21) 2015. The World Wind Energy Association (WWEA 2015) reports a global installed capacity of nearly 370,000 megawatts (MW) of wind power, the majority of which is distributed across Asia, North America and Europe (Figure 1.1). At the time of writing, China is the world leader, generating over 30 of global wind power, followed by the USA, Germany, Spain and India, with emerging markets in Brazil and Africa. Furthermore, the