Researchers often comment on the apparent disregard of raptors to moving blades (e.g. Smallwood et al. 2009 Dahl et al. 2013), which is also clear from posts on YouTube involving vultures (e.g. Ceric 2009). As well as flying at the wrong height at the wrong time, the visual system of raptors may also contribute to their apparently low aversion to risk. In more detail, Martin et al. (2012) showed scavenging Gyps vultures have a small binocular region andlarge blind areas above, below and behind their heads. A typical head position when foraging would allow scanning of the ground as they search for food, extensive lateral coverage to check out conspecifics in flight and would shield the eyes from the sun, but with the key disadvantage that the birds are rendered blind in the direction of travel. Martin et al. (2012) also state that the available empirical evidence suggests that the perception that raptors have wide or generally large binocular fields is fallacy.;Successful mitigation of collision risk has recently been demonstrated for migrant vultures and raptors in both Spain (May, Volume 2, Chapter 6, Figure 6.3) and Portugal (Tom et al. 2015) through temporary shutdown, with minimal losses to energy production. For bats, simply increasing turbine cutin speed by 1.5 3 metres per second or feathering blades and slowing rotor speed up to the turbine manufacturers cutin speed substantially reduces fatalities during what are generally predictable highrisk periods (Arnett, Volume 2, Chapter 8). However, it is obviously better for the birds and bats concerned if a highrisk site had been located elsewhere. Risk or sensitivity maps provide a sound basis to avoid conflict through siting of the wind farm in the first place (Bright  Muldoon, Volume 2, Chapter 5). Reid et al. (2015) and Tack  Fedy (2015) provide recent examples of using landscape features to optimise the siting of wind farms to reduce conflict with raptors.;Figure 11.9 Common Kestrel Falco tinnunculus is a common collision victim at wind farms in Spain. It may be vulnerable as a result its hunting strategy of hovering from height scanning the ground below, coupled with the visual system of raptors that renders them blind in the direction of travel when looking down. (Martin R. Perrow)