The conceptual model presented in this chapter is the result of past research on agricultural shelterbelts and a few measurements made in and around operating wind farms, informed by relevant published results from numerical simulations of wind farms and wind tunnel studies of wind farms. In summary, wind farms can modify ambient environmental conditions to create their own microclimates. Ignoring the influence of terrain effects, the largest influence of turbines on ambient microclimate is through reducing mean wind speed and generating turbulence. Superimposed on this general condition is a complex patchwork of regions with increases and decreases in wind speed and turbulence. Effects of turbines at the surface are amplified at night and suppressed by normally higher turbulence during daylight hours.;Turbines and their wakes influence the surface microclimates through three mechanisms (1) direct wake interaction with the surface (2) wakes above the surface that influence surface microclimate conditions and (3) static pressure effects created by the turbines as bluff bodies in the ambient flow field. Turbine wakes consisting of a cone of reduced wind speed and enhanced turbulence may reach the ground beyond about two rotor diameters downwind during the day but much farther downwind at night. If this turbulence propagates to the surface it can have a large influence on fluxes of moisture, heat, momentum, CO2 and other trace gases that may be of local importance. For a constant wind direction the impact of the direction of turbine blade rotation is revealed at the surface by streamwise streaks of influence extending downwind from the turbine. These streaks consist of slight enhancements of the downward vertical velocity and turbulence on the downward half of the blade rotation, and upward vertical velocity and turbulence on the upward half of the blade rotation. The intensity of these streamwise enhancements diminishes with distance, more so during daytime than nighttime, but may extend 20 or more rotor diameters downwind of the base of the turbine. Vertical fluxes reflect these narrow streamwise patterns. If the wake of one turbine strikes another turbine downwind, the intensity of surface interaction increases. As wakes penetrate deeper into the wind farm a general merging of surface streaks of influence decreases wind speed and enhances surface turbulence. The orientations of the streaks will follow any change in ambient wind direction and will take on a different character as they strike, or fail to strike, downwind turbines. Deeper into the wind farm the merged influence is less dependent on changing wind direction.