Black Grouse and Western Capercaillie Tetrao urogallus as well as Willow Ptarmigan and Rock Ptarmigan Lagopus muta have previously been recorded colliding with deer fences (Petty 1995 Bevanger  Brseth 2000) and power lines (Bevanger 1998). From a human perspective, whilst the wires of fences and power lines could be perceived to be virtually invisible to a fast, lowflying bird, a turbine tower would seem difficult to miss. But, as noted by Martin (2011), many birds do not have stereopsis and the function of binocular vision lies primarily in the control of the bill towards close objects and not for the control of locomotion towards more remote targets especially in flight. The explosive, fast flight of Tetraonid grouse is typically employed as an escape response from predators and there may be little time to react to unexpected objects in what should be an uncluttered open landscape, if the object is actually seen at all. At Smla, most collisions of Willow Ptarmigan also occur during the winter, where at such high latitude there is very limited daylight, and even during the day, light levels may be low.;Despite any limitations in vision, attempts to reduce collisions of grouse with anthropogenic objects have demonstrated that simple changes in the contrast of the object can be successful, suggesting that grouse do see the way ahead. Baines  Andrew (2003) marked deer fences at the top and in the middle with two 25 cm strips of orange plastic netting, which reduced collision rates by 91 for Black Grouse and 64 for Western Capercaillie. At Smla, an ongoing study indicates a reduction in mortality of Willow Ptarmigan at turbine towers that have been painted black compared to the usual white (May et al. unpublished).;The study described here was part of the BirdWind Research Project carried out by the NINA, organised under the Centre for Design of Renewable Energy (CEDREN) consortium. Thanks to Sten Svartaas for radiotagging and monitoring of Smla Willow Ptarmigan, Lars Falkdalen Lindahl for allowing the use of his photo and Martin Perrow for improving the English text.;Key differences in collision patterns between birds and bats are that birds collide with tall structures such as buildings, whereas bats do not, and there is no evidence of attraction to individual turbines for birds, as there is for bats. The differences between the two faunal groups stem from the different sensory systems used (Barclay et al., Chapter 9, Box 9.1). Striking observations have been made