Key differences in collision patterns between birds and bats are that birds collide with tall structures such as buildings, whereas bats do not, and there is no evidence of attraction to individual turbines for birds, as there is for bats. The differences between the two faunal groups stem from the different sensory systems used (Barclay et al., Chapter 9, Box 9.1). Striking observations have been madefrom radar and thermal imaging of bats travelling from several hundred metres in some cases, apparently to inspect the tower, nacelle and blades especially under low wind speeds. Theories to account for attraction include the noise or movement of turbines, the potential for turbines to offer roosting or mating sites as though they are tall trees, or the attraction to insects themselves attracted by turbines. All theories have both supporting and contradictory evidence from different studies, but none has been rigorously tested and it may be that a number of factors are at play in different circumstances. Nevertheless, it is at least clear that insects are attracted to wind turbines probably because of the heat emitted, especially from the nacelle, the light colours of blades and towers and artificial lighting (Elzay et al., Chapter 4). Large numbers of insects are known to die on blades as their encrusted bodies considerably affect blade performance and the power produced by perhaps up to 50. Optimal energy production relies on regular cleaning by operatives or on blades fitted with a selfcleaning system. Conversely, the significance of the losses to local insect populations remains unquantified (Elzay et al., Chapter 4). A step forward would be to determine which of the relatively highflying taxa to hit turbines in the first place are more likely to be affected, both in relation to the insects themselves and any bats they may attract.;The consistent peak in bat fatalities in late summerautumn coincides with migration of many species in northern latitudes and the most common collision victims are typically migratory tree bats of relatively few species such as Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus in North America and Leislers Bat Nyctalus leisleri in Europe. However, the key factor behind the collision of particular bat species, such as Mexican FreeTailed Bat Tadarida brasiliensis in the southern USA, is their tendency to be relatively highflying within the air space occupied by turbines irrespective of the time of year.;Intuitively, this is also the key factor behind the collision of birds, with highflying soaring species such as raptors and storks generally thought to be more at risk (see Lucas  Perrow, Chapter 8). However, in the study of Morinha et al. (2014) two passerine species, House Martin Delichon urbicum and Eurasian Skylark Alauda arvensis, were the main collision victims as a result of their flight behaviour bringing them into the risk zone. The former species is a highflying aerialfeeder, whereas males of the latter undertake a vertical ascending song flight to considerable height, which also accounts for the sexratio bias of victims.