As Cryan and Barclay (2009) suggested, bats could be killed at random, that is, they happen to be in the wrong place at the wrong time (i.e. where and when there is an operational wind turbine with moving blades). If this were the case, variation in fatalities should reflect variation in the local abundance of bats and the communityand population structure in terms of species, sex, age and reproductive condition. The relevant bat community is not simply that found generally in the region, but involves those bats in the bladeswept area. This is important because it means that surveys of bats at ground level (e.g. capturing them in mistnets, or recording echolocation calls with groundbased detectors) may be irrelevant for testing the randomfatality hypothesis as they do not sample bats at the height of the blades. While acoustic surveys can determine species composition in the bladeswept area (e.g. Collins  Jones 2009 Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Staton  Poulton 2012), they cannot identify individuals sex, age or reproductive condition. Thus, there are no appropriate data to truly test the hypothesis that bat fatalities involve a random sample of bats in the bladeswept area.;Despite the above, patterns of fatalities may be useful in testing the random fatality hypothesis. As discussed earlier, the species of bats most commonly killed by turbines have several features in common, including that they have relatively high aspect ratio and wing loading, and fly quickly, in open air (Table 9.1). This flight style makes individuals of these species more likely to be in the bladeswept area (i.e. high above the ground in the open) than other species, thus increasing the chance of their being killed. The other common feature of the majority of bats killed at turbines is timing, with the peak in fatalities occurring in autumn (Table 9.1 and Figure 9.2). These patterns suggest that fatalities are not random events.;Figure 9.2 Seasonal variation in fatality rate of Hoary and Silverhaired Bats at a wind farm in Alberta, Canada, illustrating the peak in fatalities in late summerearly autumn. Insert Silverhaired Bat Lasionycteris noctivagans. (M. Brock Fenton)