This chapter examines how a collection of wind turbines in a defined region may create meteorological conditions different enough from its surroundings to change the structure and function of above or belowground ecosystems. Despite the rapid expansion in the number of wind farms, there are very few in situ measurements from which to establish the aerodynamic and thermodynamic characteristics, that is the microclimate, of wind farms. Consequently, conceptual models from analogues in natural or humanconstructed landscapes were needed to guide thinking about the ways in which wind farms may influence ecosystems. Wind tunnel simulations of wind farms provide insight on the changes in aerodynamic (e.g. wind speed, turbulence) characteristics of wind farms. Analysis of field measurements taken within wind farms and leeward of agricultural shelterbelts provides thermodynamic (e.g. heatingcooling, evaporationcondensation, solar and infrared radiation) characteristics needed to construct an informed conceptual model of how turbines may affect plant functioning. Measurements show that within wind farms, turbines create nighttime warming of about 1C and daytime cooling of less than 1C. Satellite measurements of surface radiating conditions provide spatial maps of surface temperature that generally agree with point surface measurements within wind farms. Carbon dioxide flux measurements in a wind farm suggest that turbines promote carbon uptake by plants during the day and increase plant respiration at night. Published studies on the regional and global impacts of large wind farms show that such effects are small as compared to, say, changes that would create measurable effects on crop yield. Global models give some evidence that large continental wind farms may create nonlocal climate effects, such as smallchanges in precipitation over oceans. More studies are needed on microclimate changes within a few hundred metres of turbines and also on whether large wind farms create regional changes in cloudiness and precipitation.;Climate can be defined as the collection of timeaveraged meteorological conditions. A microclimate is the collection of aerodynamic and thermodynamic conditions describing an arbitrarily small region that differs from the surrounding larger region. This small region may consist of only a few square metres that are strongly influenced by some natural or artificial structure. The area under a tree in a meadow, for instance, would have its own microclimate as a result of average meteorological conditions different from those of the surrounding treeless meadow. On the other hand, the entire 1 km square meadow surrounded by mountains would have a microclimate different from the surrounding 1,000 square kilometre mountain region. On an even larger scale, major cities have their own urban microclimates.;Microclimate is described by the averages of temperature, humidity, pressure, precipitation, wind conditions, solar and infrared radiation, and cloudiness taken on a variety of timescales such as annual, seasonal, monthly, daily or hourly. Microclimate may also include nearsurface atmospheric conditions such as carbon dioxide (CO2) level and concentrations of ozone, volatile organic compounds or other trace gas concentrations, and soil conditions such as soil moisture and soil temperature.;Rates of change of physical properties are also used to describe a microclimate. Heat flux, for instance, provides a measure of the rate at which heat energy enters or leaves the region. The fluxes of moisture, visible and infrared radiation, CO2 and ozone have analogous definitions. Momentum flux downwards is the process by which the momentum of air is transferred to the momentum of solid objects, such as plant parts and soil particles, or liquid surfaces, such as through the generation of ocean waves. Atmospheric turbulence is a major factor regulating most fluxes.