Despite the variability in mortality rates between studies, a number of points emerged from the 24 studies of individual wind farm sites or wind resource areas comprised of a number of sites in close proximity to each other, alongside more generic studies of a large number of sites (e.g. Zimmerling et al. 2013 Erickson et al. 2014). Variability appears to be particularly high between the turbines within a wind farm, with this varying from 0 to 125 birds per turbine per year in some cases. It is clear from many studies that some turbines, particularly those in isolation or on edges of the wind farm or associated with particular habitat features, are responsible for most bird deaths. In contrast, averaging themortality rate across the 24 studies produced values around four birds per turbine per year, which was in close agreement with other extensive studies such as that of Zimmerling et al. (2013), where a value of around eight birds per turbine per year was recorded. It is thought that the configuration of the wind farm is an important factor, with the use of larger turbines (including blade length and tower height) thought likely to decrease potential bird mortality, particularly in relation to the mortality per megawatt of power delivered. Further studies are required to test whether this is generally the case and whether painting turbines or illuminating (or not) turbines can help to mitigate collision.;Overall, the populations of most species recorded as collision victims do not seem to be significantly affected by this additional source of mortality. However, some species of conservation concern sometimes suffer the highest collision risk, and there are examples (e.g. Whitetailed Eagle) where collision mortality has reduced the local population. As noted by Stewart et al. (2007), it also needs to be remembered that even where data have indicated an impact of wind farms on a population, it may be unclear whether the negative impact is a decline in population abundance or a decline in use owing to avoidance. In addition, effects upon the wider population are difficult to determine, especially where the origin of the birds recovered dead is unclear. Migrating birds may encounter many wind farms, but as yet very little is known of the cumulative effects of any mortality experienced at wind farms across the entire range of the individuals within a population. There is a clear need to analyse data from larger numbers of wind farms to ascertain cumulative impacts and their effect on populations on different scales (local, national and international). Mortality estimates in the context of population models can provide a picture of population impacts, but predicting the annual increment of decline that leads to reduced population size is difficult. Longterm studies are recommended to improve this lack of knowledge and provide the opportunity to analyse population trends.;Finally, the impact of wind farms on birds must also be viewed in the context of the possible impact of climate change in the absence of wind farms. Some authors have contextualised the mortality caused by wind farms (Calvert et al. 2013 Erickson et al. 2014) and it appears to be lower than the mortality produced with other humanmade structures, such as power lines, buildings, communication towers or even traffic. Furthermore, Sovacool (2009 2013) assessed and compared the avian deaths per gigawatt hour from three electricity systems wind farms, fossilfuelled power