The characteristics of a microclimate are highly dependent on the regions exposure to largescale weather systems as well as the characteristics of its soil, vegetation (type, height, diversity, root structure, etc.) and geology, surface slope and orientation to the sun, and proximity to water bodies, major terrain features andnearby artificial structures. Management by humans and the impact of fauna such as grazers, from large mammals to insects, may also affect microclimate conditions.;Energy and moisture balance at the surface depends on the diurnal (day to night) changes in thermal stratification, or thermal stability, of the surface layer of the atmosphere. The daily cycle of heating and cooling at the earths surface in response to solar radiation during the day and outgoing infrared radiation during both day and night creates changes in thermal stratification in the lowest several hundred metres of the atmosphere. Thermal influences create turbulence during strong daytime surface heating and suppress turbulence when surface cooling dominates over incoming energy at night.;The aerodynamic effects of wind turbines on ecosystems are determined by how the effects of rotating blades, typically 40120 m above the surface, are mediated to the vegetation layer that is typically the lowest 110 m above the ground. The discussion of turbine wakes includes rotorlayer wind speed and turbulence conditions, rotational characteristics of wakes, tip vortices, propagation of wake disturbances down to the surface and ultimate dissipation of wake effects. As a bluff body, an operating turbine represents an obstacle to the airflow, which creates regions of high and low pressure within the wind farm that modify winds and surface fluxes. The operational status of a wind farm varies with wind conditions and management decisions and therefore will not have a uniform and continuous influence on the ecosystems within the wind farm. Changes in wind speed, wind direction, turbulence, shading, pressure fluctuations and generation of sound waves will influence the effect of turbines on plant and ecosystem function. As indicated earlier, turbulence and its influence on fluxes of moisture, heat, momentum, CO2 and trace gases will be a major focus of any investigation of influential factors.;Conceptual models of how turbines influence their environment must be verified and refined through measurements made in actual wind farms. A full understanding of microclimate conditions in wind farms would ideally require in situ measurements of wind speed, turbulence, temperature, humidity, carbon dioxide and pressure within operating wind farms. However, temperature measurements made remotely from satellites and on the ground in the vicinity of wind farms can provide initial insight on the collective influence of turbines in wind farm configurations.