(Smallwood et al. 2009). There is a similar intriguing prospect for scavenging birds of prey to be attracted to corpses of collision victims (Figure 11.13), as shown by the photographs of raptors collecting dead birds in the supplementary material of Smallwood et al. (2010), again with the risk of collision. Scavenging mammals and invertebrates such as carrion beetles Silphidae may otherwise directly benefit from an increased carrion load. The level of adjustment for scavenger removal required when estimating collision mortality (Huso et al., Volume 2, Chapter 4) indicates the strength of this effect.;Incombination effects are often mentioned in relation to EIA, but rarely fully considered. For birds, this is partly linked to the fact that the two principal effects, collision and displacement, are often thought to be more or less mutually exclusive (see Disturbance and displacement above). This is unlikely to be completely true, however, as illustrated in Figure 11.3, with only a part of population displaced and the remainder potentially at risk of collision even if the prospect of this is small. Individual responses may play a significant role in any variability. Failure to consider in combination effects is also strongly linked to an inability to combine effects as a result of the different metrics produced. For example, collision results in a loss of individuals from the population, but displacement cannot be generally measured as mortality or even an effect upon individual fitness, but rather as a proportion of the population affected. It is possible to make some assumptions about effects on fitness, which could be expressed as relevant population parameters such as survival or reproductive output that may be similarly calculated from the direct loss of individuals. But, to the best of knowledge this does not appear to have been achieved for onshore sites, although a proofofconcept population model has been established in one case offshore (McDonald et al. 2012).;Cumulative effects, herewith described as the combined effect of one wind farm with others, were raised as being of importance in all but one of the taxonbased chapters. In the case of invertebrates, this was probably because the effects of single sites, let alone a combination of multiple sites, have barely begun to be understood. In relation to vegetation, Silva  Passos (Chapter 3) make a similar point that the prospect of cumulative effects was only mentioned in 50 of the 36 EIAs from 14 countries they reviewed. Furthermore, they conclude that meaningful cumulative assessment is difficult to