The rate at which water is lost from the surface through evapotranspiration is strongly influenced by surface temperatureand the mean and turbulent wind speeds in the vicinity of the surface, with higher values leading to higher rates of evapotranspiration. The rate of sensible heat conduction from the surface to the atmosphere similarly depends on mean and turbulent wind. Wind also affects plant growth and structure, as well as ecosystem function.;Diurnal changes in the energy balance from mainly incoming during the day to mainly outgoing at night cause the temperature gradient between surface and atmosphere to reverse from negative (downward) during the day to positive (upward) at night. Heat flow by conduction and thermal diffusion is in the opposite direction to the temperature gradient. During the day a warm surface under cooler air creates convection, which generates turbulence and enhances sensible heat and moisture loss from the surface. The transition from day to night launches a thermally stable atmospheric condition that suppresses turbulence and vertical exchange of heat, moisture and momentum. At night, a cool surface under warm air suppresses convection, which slows the rate of heat gain from the overlying atmosphere and creates a downward transfer of moisture to the surface as dew. This stable layer deepens through the night to elevations typically well above the tops of turbine blades. The transition from night to day initiates weak convection very near the surface that strengthens through the day to form a deep layer of 1 km or more that efficiently mixes moisture and heat from the surface throughout its entire depth. Diurnal changes in thermal stratification have major influences on how turbine wakes interact with ecosystems within wind farms owing to their control on turbulence levels.;Mean kinetic energy of the wind is transformed to mechanical energy of moving turbine blades and ultimately to electrical energy. Turbulent motions, created as a byproduct of the conversion of mean energy, gradually diminish in magnitude with time and distance from their origin at the turbine blades. Higher windspeed air overlying the wind farm is gradually diffused downwards by turbulence to increase the mean wind speed behind a turbine to its upwind, undisturbed level (PortAgel et al. 2014). Analogous to a clump of trees in a meadow, a wind farm creates its own bubble of meteorological influence, or in other words it creates its own microclimate.