The Mesa Wind Project Site (hereafter Mesa) (Figure 6.2), located about 13 km northwest of Palm Springs, is one of many utilityscale wind farms in the San Gorgonio Pass between the San Bernardino and San Jacinto Mountains and adjacent Coachella Valley (Pasqualetti 2001). Mesa is located atthe western extremity of the Sonoran Desert at an elevation from about 600900 m and supports vegetation characterised as desert scrub. More detailed descriptions of the study site can be found in Lovich and Daniels (2000) and Lovich et al. (2011c 2015). Turbine specifications and layouts are summarised in Lovich (2015a).;Research at the site was driven by the overall question how does a conservationreliant species like G. agassizii, known to be declining in many areas owing to human activities and climate change (Esque et al. 2010 Lovich et al. 2014c), manage to survive in a heavily modified, wind farm dominated and industrial landscape? A corollary of that question was how do the ecology and behaviour of G. agassizii in an operating wind farm differ from those in populations living in more natural habitats, if at all?;Research at Mesa began in 1995 over a decade after it came into operation, and initially focused on the distribution of G. agassizii burrows in the landscape (Lovich  Daniels 2000). Tortoise burrows provide a moderated microclimate with more suitable temperatures and humidities that protect tortoises from the environmental extremes of desert life. Burrows can be up to 3 m in length and require a substantial investment in time and energy for tortoises to construct, especially if they construct several in a year (see review in Ernst  Lovich 2009). The choice of where to locate a burrow affects proximity to food plants, mates and nest sites (Ennen et al. 2012a Agha et al. 2013), and vulnerability to burrow collapse (Loughran et al. 2011), fires (Lovich et al. 2011b 2011c), floods (Lovich et al. 2011a) and predators (Lovich et al. 2014a Lovich 2015a).;Environmental attributes associated with tortoise burrows were compared to the same suite of attributes at random locations with no burrows. Variables measured included slope, aspect, elevation, and distance to the nearest of various plant species and features in the landscape. Multivariate statistical analysis demonstrated that mean attributes for burrow locations were significantly different from locations without burrows. Additional analysis revealed that distance to roads and turbine foundations explained more of the variation in burrow location than any other principal component, with burrows being significantly closer to roads and turbine foundations than random points. Lovich and Daniels (2000) suggested that this could be because (1) the topography of berms along roads mimics the banks along ephemeral desert