A comparison of annual mortality rates and number of pairs estimated in the study area during the breeding season was used to assess the potential negative impact of mortality due to collision with turbines (Figure 8.3). Although Griffon Vulture has been the most frequently killed species to date, the mortality rates of Booted Eagle, Common Kestrel and Montagus Harrier were among the highest relative to the number of breeding pairs in the study area. While Booted Eagle and Common Kestrel are not of conservation concern in Spain, Montagus Harrier is a vulnerable species at the national level. Further research is required to determine whether deaths dueto wind farms are related to the declining trend in the local population of Montagus Harrier in the study area.;Collisions with wind turbines over a wider area have also been monitored since 1999 (Barrios  Rodrguez 2004 de Lucas et al. 2008 2012 Ferrer et al. 2012). Griffon Vulture has been, by far, the species most frequently recorded as a collision victim. No effect on other migratory birds has been detected. For Griffon Vulture, a breeding population of around 300 pairs around the Strait of Gibraltar (Migres Foundation, unpublished data) among a population of around 2,000 individuals in southern Spain (del Moral 2009) means that the area is in constant use by vultures undertaking local movements. The population in Spain is partially migratory, with juveniles in the region being particularly prone to longdistance southward movements into Africa (Bildstein et al. 2009). Every year, 4,0005,000 juvenile Griffon Vultures disperse from their breeding colonies and cross the Strait of Gibraltar to West Africa. Despite the high number of birds recovered dead annually (up to 40 per annum), no changes in the number of breeding pairs have been detected (Figure 8.4) (Migres, unpublished data). The number of collision victims has reduced more or less year on year since 2008, which is thought to be the result of the selective temporary shutdown of wind turbines during periods of high passage of vultures implemented at the wind farm from 2008 onwards (Figure 8.4).;Figure 8.4 Trends in number of pairs, chicks fledged and productivity of breeding Griffon Vultures relative to mortality at wind farms around the Strait of Gibraltar from 2008 to 2014.