There is increasing awareness that wind farms have the potential to impact on wildlife. Freshwater ecosystems can also be affected and the aim of this chapter was to draw together the current state of understanding on the effects of onshore wind farms on aquatic organisms. This study is based on a literature review and a number of themes are discussed, including water quality, hydrology and habitat fragmentation. A case study of potential effects upon a highly sensitive protected species, the Freshwater Pearl Mussel Margaritifera margaritifera, is included. Although the types of potential impacts on aquatic areas are broadly understood, there is a general absence of scientific studies on actual observed effects. However, it is clear that the problems will be similar to those that occur as a result of other types of development and activity, such as road building and forestry operations. A deterioration in water quality is the most easily identifiable potential impact. Wind farms also usually require access roads, and watercourse crossings bring the potential for habitat fragmentation. There have been a number of cases of wind farm developments causing major landslides, which have resulted in serious impacts on river catchments. Impacts on aquatic areas generally occur only during the construction phase, and ongoing operation of wind farms is usually unlikely to result in significant effects. Impacts can again potentially occur when a wind farm is being decommissioned. Most of the potential issues arising between wind farms and the aquatic environment can be avoided or mitigated through careful project design and management. On sites that already have erosion issues, the development of a wind farm, instigating suitable water quality mitigation, could potentially bring longterm benefits to the receiving aquatic environment. However, more research is needed as there is a general absence of preandpostconstruction studies in relation to impacts of wind farms on aquatic ecosystems.;The impact of wind farms on wildlife, most notably on birds and bats, has been widely documented (e.g. Langston  Pullan 2004 de Lucas et al. 2007 May  Bevanger 2011 Arnett  Baerwald 2013) and there is now increased awareness that the development of wind energy can have impacts on the receiving ecological environment (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Tosh et al. 2014). Freshwater ecosystems are among the most threatened in the world (Richter et al. 1997 Dudgeon et al. 2006) and it is important to ensure that the development of wind energy does not compound anthropogenic impacts on these sensitive habitats and the aquatic organisms they contain. Many fish, invertebrates, plants and other biota that inhabit the freshwater streams, rivers and standing water bodies that can occur on, or downstream of, wind farm sites are of significant ecological, recreational or economic importance, and may be protected by a range of national and international legislation (see Box 5.1).;Wind farms are largescale construction projects and will affect aquatic areas, such as streams and rivers, in similar ways to other types of development. The construction of turbines and associated infrastructure such as access roads, cable connections and site drainage works can have similar effects to other major construction projects such as roads (e.g. Trombulak  Frissell 2000) and water pipelines (e.g. SanjuanDelms et al. 2014), as well as largescale forestry (e.g. Broadmeadow  Nisbet 2004), when undertaken in similar landscapes. However, wind farms are often installed in remote upland areas, which have little other development, and can be especially sensitive to change. Wind farm sites are often located near the headwaters of catchments, and these smaller watercourses can be more vulnerable than larger bodies of water because of their size. Such areas are often the nursery areas for fish populations of conservation value or may support recreational or commercial fisheries farther downstream.