PearceHiggins et al. (2012) used a full beforeafter controlimpact design including 18 wind farms and 12 reference sites to further assess population change due to wind farm development. The authors analysed data of 10 bird species. There was little change in the densities of European Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria, Northern Lapwing, Dunlin Calidris alpina, Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis and Northern Wheatear Oenanthe oenanthe, while densities of Eurasian Skylark and Eurasian Stonechat increased on wind farms during construction. These effects may have resulted from vegetation disturbance creating greater openness in the sward. In contrast, Red Grouse, Common Snipe Gallinago gallinago and Eurasian Curlew Numenius arquata declined on wind farms during construction. But whereas Red Grouse densities recovered after construction, those of Snipe and Curlew did not. In an area equivalent to a 620 m circular buffer around the turbines, the scale of the declines of Curlew and Snipe amounted to 40 and 53, respectively. Declines in densities mainly occurred between the preconstruction and construction periods. There was little evidence for declines after the construction period, suggesting that construction can have greater impacts upon birds than wind farm operation. The numbers and the size of the turbines within the different wind farms had little effect on the results.;Both studies are the first international publications to take both a multisite and a multispecies approach. They unambiguously show the avoidance of wind farms by some species of shorebirds and hence local effects of wind farms on population sizes of these species. Given the high variability of how birds react to wind farms, more studies of the quality of the ones referred to here are needed to reduce the uncertainty over the magnitude of wind farm effect on birds.;Charadriiform birds, comprising, among others, shorebirds (waders) and Larid gulls, generally share wetlands and open landscapes with Anseriform birds, with many species of shorebirds in particular also migrating from the Arctic to temperate zones. Shorebirds (Charadrii and Scolopaci) seem to suffer from displacement during the breeding season as well as the non breeding season. Studies employing BACI or GI designs were less likely to detect negative responses of breeding shorebirds than studies based on anecdotal observations (Table 7.5). Nevertheless, significant displacement of Common Snipe and Eurasian Curlew was shown by the rigorous studies of PearceHiggins et al. (2009 2012)