Although the footprints of wind turbines are small, in terms of both the size of the basal pad on the ground, and the monopile and the span of the turbine blades at higher levels, the disturbance during the construction of turbines and the loss of habitat to access roads may permanently impact local populations of terrestrial invertebrates through the loss of viable foraging, mating and nesting habitats. At larger spatial and longer timescales, such losses of habitat area are likely to lead to overall reductions in invertebrate abundance and diversity (Parker  MacNally 2002), and this could also prove to be the case in and around wind farms (Parker  MacNally 2002).;Beyond simple reductions in habitat area, extensive networks of access roads fragment the remaining habitats (Figure 4.3), and habitat fragmentation, via diverse mechanisms, can strongly affect invertebrate populations and communities (Debinski  Holt 2000 Ewers  Didham 2006). Terrestrial invertebrates can show a strong aversion to crossing roads and therefore become isolated in habitat fragments (e.g. the Carabid Beetle Abax ater) (Mader 1984). Similar such shifts in the magnitude and patterns of dispersal (e.g. Munguira  Thomas 1992) may lead to further isolation of populations in habitat patches, increasing susceptibility to local extinction (reviewed by Ewers  Didham 2006). However, whether fragmentation associated with wind farm development has these effects has not, to the authors knowledge, been specifically investigated.;Although fragmentation typically negatively affects local populations, roads and the verges beside roads can also create new habitats for particular invertebrates, the populations of which can explode along roadsides (Port  Thompson 1980 Delgado et al. 2013). An increase in quantity and quality of resources (e.g. Lightfoot  Whitford 1991) and reduced predation pressure (Port  Thompson 1980) may facilitate population explosions for those groups that are undisturbed by roadside conditions. Given the diverse and central ecological roles of invertebrates (Figure 4.2), habitat fragmentation may disrupt trophic interactions, leading to landscapewide shifts in resource consumption and availability (Martinson  Fagan 2014) on wind farms (see Food web effects, below).;Road construction and use invariably leads to local increases in pollution and dust. In the initial operational period of a wind farm, each turbine must be inspected once a day. During the estimated