June 2012 (Figure 4.4A). Insects were collected upwind (two sampling stations), at the base and downwind (nine sampling stations) of a single turbine at 20 m intervals. Each sampling station (Figure 4.4B) included a vane trap (Figure 4.4C) (Stephen  Rao 2005) and three bee cups (pan traps) (Figure 4.4D), both of which primarily attracted pollinating insects such as bees, flies, butterflies, beetles and moths (Grundel et al. 2011). During 4,344 hours of sampling 1,313 insects were collected in vane traps and bee cups. The number of insects collected per sampling hour (vane traps and bee cups combined) was used as the metric of abundance because it standardised estimates across sites and dates for this study and facilitates future comparisons with other studies. Overall, 0.25 insects were captured per hour, but more insects were collected in vane traps (0.60 insects per hour) than in bee cups (0.12 insects per hour). Vane traps collected proportionally more beetles and butterflies than did bee cups, whereas bee cups collected more flies than did vane traps. Vane traps and bee cups collected similar numbers of bees and wasps. Overall, the methods were complementary in characterising the pollinating insect fauna. The mean abundance of insects was relatively constant along the sampling transect (ANOVA, F11,1140.3770, P0.96). However, more insects were captured on days with low wind velocities (5 ms) than on windier days (ANOVA, F1,11422.2, P0.001) (Figure 4.5). At all wind speeds, insect abundance was consistently higher directly under the turbine than at the two neighbouring stations. Although it is unclear why insects were more abundant beneath turbines, it is possible that air currents deposited insects below the turbines andor those insects were attracted to the turbines. Insect abundance on the windiest day (sustained wind speed 20 ms) was uniformly low before increasing dramatically beginning at 140 m downwind of the turbine. The higher abundance of insects downwind of the turbine on windy days may be due to turbulence forcing insects to the ground. Few insects were observed flying under windy conditions, when they tended instead to crawl on vegetation within the boundary layer. The proportional representation of major insect orders also varied among sites, but not consistently with distance from the turbine. Flies tended to be most abundant near the turbine and rare far from the turbine, whereas beetles were most abundant far from the turbine. In contrast, butterflies, bees and wasps had similar abundances across the transect (data not shown,but see Dillon  Tronstad 2013).;Figure 4.4 To determine the effect of wind turbines on insect populations at a wind farm in southern Wyoming (A), insects were collected at sampling stations spaced 20 m apart and placed upwind and downwind of a turbine (B). Sampling stations included vane traps (C) and pan traps (D) that primarily collect pollinating insects. (Lusha Tronstad);Figure 4.5 Wind speed alters patterns of pollinator abundance around a wind turbine. Insects collected in passive traps (see Figure 4.3) were most abundant at low wind speeds (5 ms), at the base of the turbine at all wind speeds, and far downwind of the turbine at high wind speeds (20 ms). (Reproduced from Dillon and Tronstad 2013, with permission)