Development of wind farms results in an addition of linear landscape elements, such as access roads to and within the farm and any power lines connecting the wind farm with the larger powerline network. Wind farms may thus cause barrier effects and increase fragmentation at different spatial scales (Pruett et al. 2009). Many terrestrial mammals experience barrier effects from roads with high traffic intensities (Forman  Alexander 1998), but access roads to turbines have comparatively low traffic intensities. Access roads may, however, be substantially wider than most other unpaved roads, and have wide verges cleared from forest. This may create improved habitats alongside the roads for some species, but may also constitute barriers for species that avoid open habitats.;Narrow gravel roads with low traffic intensity have been shown to act as significant barriers for small mammals such as rodents and shrews, and the effect increases with road width and traffic intensity (Oxley et al. 1975 Mader 1984 Swihart  Slade 1984 Rico et al. 2007). Any effects can, however, be reduced by allowing vegetation to grow up to the edge of the road (Goosem 2001). Similarly, arboreal species such as Pine Marten Martes martes avoid open habitats, including narrow roads (Brainerd  Rolstad 2002 Sidorovich et al. 2010), and may experience increased fragmentation and barrier effects from wind farms in forested environments.;Minor roads are unlikely to act as physical barriers for larger species and, instead, roads may be used for movements, creating corridor rather than barrier effects (e.g. Bruggeman et al. 2007 Laurian et al. 2008 Roever et al. 2010 Latham et al. 2011). This is true for both ungulates and carnivores, especially during winter when cleared roads reduce the time and energy required for moving through snow.;Less is known about the barrier effects of power lines. Reindeer may avoid areas up to several kilometres around large power lines, which could result in a barrier effect (Nellemann et al. 2001 Vistnes et al. 2004). It is not known whether this avoidance depends on visual cues, noise, the electromagnetic field associated with power lines, or any other type of impact (Reimers et al. 2000). The power lines in the cited studies tended to follow landscape features (ridges and valleys) and it has been suggested that what appeared to be an avoidance of power lines was only a result of topographically structured movement (Reimers  Colman 2006). However, more recent research shows that Reindeer, like birds and rodents, can see the ultraviolet coronal flashes from highvoltage power lines, suggesting that in darkness Reindeer experience power lines as lines of flickering light (Tyler et al. 2014).