 from Arnett  Baerwald (2013) to provide an approximate range of the scale of mortality for these species. This exercise suggested the number of Hoary Bats colliding per year ranged between 74,552 and 2.64 million, compared to 43,162 to 1.53 million Eastern Red Bats and 35,314 to 1.25 million Silverhaired Bats. Although the range of these estimates is very wide, it would still be possible at least to frame at what point losses could be significant for different population scales if these can be defined. Obviously, issues at a local or regional scale may become invisible at larger national or continental scales and according to the precautionary principle, it is important not to underestimate potential impacts. The key issue for bats in particular is that the population dynamics of even common species are hardly known, with an absence of even basic life history data on birth and death rates. At least if this information was available, population modelling could be undertaken to assess the likely impact (see Smales, Volume 2, Chapter 3).;It is obvious that even a few collisions of a kselected longlived species such as a large raptor could result in a significant increase in mortality rate and an effect on the population, compared to the equivalent number of collisions of an rselected songbird (Lucas  Perrow, Chapter 8). But even for raptors, where basic parameters are generally reasonably well understood, a number of outcomes may be suggested by the different techniques used. Carrete et al. (2009), for example, suggested that the generally declining population of Egyptian Vulture Neophron percnopterus in Spain was decreasing faster in areas with wind farms, suggesting a significant increase in extinction risk. But, a reanalysis of population viability by GarcaRipolls  LpezLpez (2011) concluded that the effect of wind farms was lower than predicted, although it confirmed that any effect on survival was more important than any on fecundity. The same study reached a similar conclusion for Griffon Vulture, which at least fits with the population trends reported by Martin et al. (Chapter 8, Box 8.2), which do not reflect the additional mortality from collision with wind turbines. A decline in collision rate over time was attributed to the beneficial effect of mitigation measures. It is noteworthy, however, that a similar decline in collision rate of bats over time in the absence of mitigation was recorded by Barclay et al. (Chapter 9, Figure 9.5) for a number of sites in Canada, implying that the underlying populations of the species involved were in decline. That is, unless bats and perhaps vultures have learned to avoid turbines, or perhaps the fraction of the population that was more reckless has been eliminated thereby also removing any genetic expression of this tendency from future