Abundant evidence from terrestrial ecosystems demonstrates that the removal or addition of predators alters the fitness, abundance and biomass of lower trophic levels (Schmitz et al. 2000 Shurin et al. 2002 Romero  Koricheva 2011). Most studies of terrestrial trophic cascades have manipulated invertebrate predators, but manipulation of vertebrate predators had stronger impacts on lower trophic levels (Shurin et al. 2002). Regardless of the type of predator, invertebrate prey can have both positive and negative effects on plants (Knight et al. 2006 Romero  Koricheva 2011). For example, herbivorous invertebrates reduce plant fitness, expressed as the number of flowers, fruits or seeds, whereas pollinating insects increased the fitness of flowering plants by facilitating outcrossing (Ollerton et al. 2011). Therefore, the presence of more predators may decrease the abundance of herbivorous insects, reducing plant damage, and increasing plant biomass and fitness (Halaj  Wise 2001 Romero  Koricheva 2011). An increased number of predators may also decrease the abundance of pollinating insects, decreasing plant fitness (Romero  Koricheva 2011).;Wind farms may directly or indirectly change the abundance of predators with possible topdown or bottomup effects cascading to other trophic levels. Wind farms may induce topdown trophic cascades by reducing predator abundance via collisions or avoidance, or increasing predator numbers through attraction. Populations of insectivorous bats may be reduced at wind farms as a result of changes in pressure around turbine blades (e.g. Cryan  Barclay 2009) (see Chapter 9 in this volume), and birds may avoid wind farms (PearceHiggins et al. 2009) (see Chapter 8 in this volume). Some birds, including Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus and Lesser Greater Prairie Chickens Tympanuchus pallidicinctus and T. cupido avoid wind farms (Pruett et al. 2009a 2009b Naugle et al. 2011) such that the abundance of these birds is reduced near wind farms. PearceHiggins et al. (2009) studied birds at 12 wind farms in the UK and discovered that abundance decreased by 1553 for some species, including Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus, European Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria and Eurasian Curlew Numenius arquata. In these cases, reducing the numbers of vertebrate or invertebrate predators may lead to increased biomass of their invertebrate prey. Conversely, some animals may be attracted to wind farms because the turbines provide structure or because they are following local accumulations of their prey. For example, bats may be attracted to wind farms to feed on moths (Rydell et al. 2010). The increased abundance of predatory bats at