An unnatural input of resources into a system can cause trophic cascades through decoupling of predatorprey relationships. There is evidence that such subsidies can enhance predator abundance above carrying capacity, which eventually suppresses natural resources, causing trophic cascades (Polis et al. 1997). Wind farms are known to kill large numbers of birds and bats globally (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Arnett et al. 2008) and the removal of carcasses by scavengers is well documented (Smallwood 2013). Hypothetically, an increase in bird and bat carcasses could lead to an increased abundance or visitation of mesocarnivores within a wind farm, which could suppress reptiles and amphibians through preyswitching when other food sources are scarce (Lovich et al. 2014c). The authors are not aware of any study that has investigated possible predator attraction in wind farms and itspotential impact on reptiles and amphibians.;There is a wealth of literature summarising the effects of fires on reptiles and amphibians (e.g. Russell et al. 1999 Greenberg  Waldrop 2008). In wind farms, unnatural fires can ignite during all stages of development, including construction, operation, maintenance and decommissioning, as well as starting from vehicles, humans (e.g. smoking or welding) and electrical and turbine malfunctions (Figure 6.3 in Box 6.1). In general terms, turbineinduced fires through lightning strikes, mechanical failures or electrical failures are a significant but globally underreported phenomenon (Starr 2010). It therefore should be anticipated that wind farms will increase the risk and frequency of fire wherever they are installed, and the effects on the herpetofauna will be similar to those in the literature regarding other ignition sources. Many, but not all, species of reptiles and amphibians are poorly adapted to fire and, therefore, the impact of turbineinduced fires is expected to vary by species, habitat and geographic region (Russell et al. 1999 Pilliod et al. 2003). Fire often results in altered plant species composition that can degrade herpetofauna habitat (Figure 6.3 in Box 6.1, Figure 6.5), especially through the invasion of non native plants (DAntonio  Vitousek 1992 Pimentel et al. 2005).