One might expect that owing to their inexperience and less well developed flight ability, juvenile bats (i.e. young of the year) would be killed more often than adults (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008). There are also hypotheses as to why adult males or females may suffer higher fatality rates (e.g. Cryan 2008). Contrary to these hypotheses, however, there is no consistent pattern of biased fatalities towards juveniles over adults, or one sex or the other. There is considerable variation in the sex and age distribution of fatalities among sites and species, and this may simply reflect the skewed local population structure in the vicinity of the wind farm. For example, in Greece,adult male bats made up over 67 of fatalities, but the wind farms were primarily at relatively high elevations where males dominate the local community (Georgiakakis et al. 2012). Adult males were more common than expected in North American studies, if the population sex ratio was equal, although that pattern was not consistent (Arnett et al. 2008). Species differences in the age and sex composition of fatalities (e.g. Rydell et al. 2010a) may suggest either spatial segregation among sex andor age groups (e.g. in terms of foraging height or occupancy of latitudes or elevations) or behavioural differences (e.g. in terms of attraction to turbines) (Cryan 2008).;A consistent pattern across species and locations is that a peak in bat fatalities occurs in late summer and early autumn (Table 9.1 and Figure 9.2). This is true in temperate North America and Europe, but also in more tropical areas in Brazil and India, and in both the northern and southern hemispheres. In part, this peak may be explained by the increase in population size at the end of the reproductive season when juveniles start flying. Even though, in general, juveniles do not appear to be at greater risk than adults, the total population size increases and this may be reflected in the increase in fatalities. In addition, for migratory species or populations, the population of bats in the vicinity of turbines increases as individuals move through the area on their way to their wintering grounds in late summer (e.g. Baerwald  Barclay 2011). Lastly, changes in flight and foraging behaviour in late summer may also increase the number of bats that are in the zone of risk. For example, in Europe, some species of Pipistrellus and Nyctalus feed more in the open, away from trees and higher above the ground, late in the summer compared to spring (Staton  Poulton 2012 Kelm et al. 2014). This may be related to changes in insect distribution and the late summerearly autumn migratory movements of some insects (Rydell et al. 2010b).;While the late summerautumn peak in fatalities among bats may in part be explained by the increase in the number of bats passing through wind farms, a continuing mystery is why there is no similar peak in spring as the same bats migrate to their summer grounds. Possible explanations include that migratory routes are more dispersed in spring than in autumn, or are in areas not occupied by wind farms, or that bats fly at greater heights, above the turbines, in spring, perhaps to take advantage of favourable prevailing winds. However, so far there had been no convincing