One of the striking features of compilations of published results of studies of avoidance and displacement is the lack of consistency between different studies. Although part of the variance may be explained by different methods, it is very clear that individuals of the same species react differently to wind turbines at different places and at different times. The variance may also be due to different individual circumstances, which could be linked to the quality and abundance of the available resource and nutritional status, as well as other factors such as flock size or perceived predation risk. If resources are limited, such as breeding territories or food in winter, then individuals may be prepared to take more risks or simply tolerate the presence of wind farms. As well as effects upon birds resident in an area on either breeding or wintering grounds, barrier effects of wind farms on migrating birdshave been reported for many species. Again, results differ between studies.;The lack of consistency between studies means that it is difficult for wind farm developers to predict the impact of a planned wind farm on a given site. There is still not enough understanding of the interaction between disturbance by wind farms and other factors that affect the distribution of birds, such as food, safety from predation and the availability of suitable nest sites. More multifactorial studies that include availability of food and other critical resources are needed.;To date, avoidance has generally recorded as a change in distribution or behaviour in response to wind farms. Avoidance distances differed between species and between studies. In some species, impacts of wind farms could be seen at distances of up to 800 m, whereas other species were seemingly attracted by wind farms or, more likely, by new habitats that had become available through the construction of the wind farm and its infrastructure. Habituation to wind farms evidently occurs, at least in some species (Madsen  Boertmann 2008). How widespread habituation is, however, remains largely unknown owing to the lack of longterm studies. Moreover, it remains unclear whether habituation actually reduces any important effects. For example, it could be that habituation to wind farms increases the collision risk of otherwise riskaverse species.;Although the extent and nature of displacement may be described in some circumstances, a critical gap in knowledge is that the consequences of any displacement are mostly unknown as there are few studies demonstrating any links to individual fitness manifested as body condition or reproductive success. Those studies that have demonstrated a link report a range of scenarios from negative to positive impacts, with the latter seemingly linked to indirect changes in the distribution of predators of a vulnerable species in one study. Demonstrating effects upon fitness of important species is a key area for future research. Consequences for individual fitness could ultimately be seen at the population scale.;Up to now, there is seemingly no evidence for populationwide effects of displacement. The lack of evidence is at least partly due to the fact that only very few studies have tried to cast light on the cumulative effects of wind farms. Cumulative effects are likely to become stronger in future because the number of wind farms and the area occupied by wind farms will greatly increase within the coming years. Wind energy is seen as one of the most feasible ways