For Galliform birds (grouse, pheasants and their allied species), the information on impacts due to displacement by wind farms is variable. Devereux et al. (2008) found that the distribution of Common Pheasant Phasianus colchicus was negatively affected by the presence of wind turbines. For Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix, Zeiler and GrnschachnerBerger (2009) showed that numbers dropped after the construction of a wind farm, but remained stable atreference sites. Similarly, PearceHiggins et al. (2012) showed that densities of Red Grouse Lagopus lagopus scotica declined on wind farm sites during the construction phase, but recovered when the wind farm was operational (see Box 7.1). In contrast, no difference in density and breeding success of Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus was detected by Bevanger et al. (2010) between wind farm and reference sites. Toepfer (2009) did not find evidence for an impact of wind farms on the movement patterns of Greater Prairie Chicken Tympanuchus cupido, but Pruett et al. (2009) showed that both Greater and Lesser Prairie Chickens T. pallidicinctus avoided crossing power lines and paved highways, and concluded that wind farms and their power lines may increase habitat fragmentation.;Many passerines nest in open landscapes and encounter wind farms. However, in several studies, passerines seemed to be unaffected by the presence of wind farms (Shaffer 2009 Bevanger et al. 2010 PearceHiggins et al. 2012 Steinborn  Reichenbach 2012). For example, Devereux et al. (2008) showed that turbine location did not affect the distribution of wintering farmland birds, if controlling for habitat effects. Nevertheless, some species, notably Northern Wheatear, are more sensitive (PearceHiggins et al. 2009) (Box 7.1). Passerines generally reacted more to wind farms outside the breeding season than during the breeding season (Table 7.6). Passerines living in open habitats and in woodlands showed a significant trend towards avoidance of wind farms during the non breeding season, whereas during the breeding season significantly more studies showed neutrality or attraction to wind farms (Table 7.6). Passerines typically breeding in reed beds (stands of Phragmites australis) were also seemingly attracted to wind farms (see below for possible explanations).;In most species of all taxa that have been subject to more than one study, results are not completely consistent. Many species showed avoidance of wind farms in some studies but not in others. Avoidance is thus not strictly species specific, but also depends on other factors. The most important factor may be habitat availability or habitat quality. When good habitats are in short supply, birds could choose to settle close to wind farms if good habitats are available there but nowhere else, as described for Barnacle Geese (Percival 2005). When good habitats are readily available, the same birds could decide to keep their distance from wind farms. The actual settling patterns of birds in relation to wind farms may be the result of a tradeoff between disturbance caused by the wind farm, habitat quality and other factors.