Figure 2.2 Conceptual model of turbinecrop interaction via mean wind and turbulence fields. The wake of a wind turbine consists of a cone ofreduced mean wind speed extending downwind a distance of tens of H, where H is the hub height of the turbine. Within this cone there is more turbulence than outside. Both the reduction in wind speed and enhanced turbulence levels diminish with distance downwind. At a point downwind, depending on atmospheric thermal stratification, the wind conditions recover to ambient levels similar to those upwind of the turbine. During daytime the turbine wake will reach the surface closer to the tower than at night because the ambient turbulence mixes the atmosphere more effectively during the day. Turbulent motions from wind turbines can influence surface fluxes of heat, moisture and trace gases such as carbon dioxide.;How might such changes in mean wind speed and turbulence affect ecosystems within and around wind farms? Plants tend to adjust their growth to adapt to local wind conditions, as shown by flagging of trees, where branches and leaves or needles grow and thrive on downwind rather than upwind branches, and, where plants are subject to frequent movement, the development of stronger stems to preserve plant function and prevent damage. Movement of plants tends to allow light to penetrate deeper into plant canopies, thereby allowing lower leaves and needles to support increased photosynthesis. Understorey plants also may receive more total daily solar radiation if taller plants are in motion. It is conceivable that such changes could favour some plants more than others in a balanced ecosystem. But what evidence is available in the peerreviewed literature that supports this conceptual model?;Although the research literature includes numerous studies of the aerodynamic effects of wind turbines on wind speed and turbulence, studies on the influences of wind turbines or wind farms on microclimate effects in wind farms are very limited. Indeed, the only studies that report the influence of wind farms on temperature from in situ measurements are the studies of Baidya Roy and Traiteur (2010), Smith et al. (2013) and Rajewski et al. (2013 2014). However, the latter are the only reports up to now of microclimate concurrent in situ conditions inside as well as outside wind farms during known operational periods (see Measured effects of turbines on microclimate processes, below). The first two studies provide measurements only at points upwind and downwind of the wind farm and cite no observations inside the wind farms. For example, Baidya Roy and Traiteur (2010) provide data from a meteorological field campaign that consisted of nearsurface