As well as chapters on the taxonomic groups, the scene was to be set by an introductory chapter on the Nature of wind farms, with a further chapter on Climate outlining the emerging science of climatic changes experienced as a result of the installation of onshore wind farms, which has ecological consequences. The effects of construction on the original habitats, including soils, are encompassed in the Vegetation chapter, with the Aquatic invertebrates and fish chapter outlining the hydrological consequences of the construction of some wind farms in particular localities. Otherwise, the construction of wind farms has similarities with other large scale construction projects, the effects of which are dealt with in detail in other publications. A Synthesis of the effects and impacts upon all the taxonomic groups is also provided in a standalone chapter at the end of the volume. This also aimed to fill any gaps in the preceding chapters and as it was completed after all other chapters also had the benefit of incorporating more recent information published in the intervening period.;To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgements and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results, Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over the two volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whilst others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides a 300word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themes provide the main body of the text, generally divided into as few subheading levels as possible. Division between effects during construction and operation was generally avoided as this increased the number of subheadings and led to unwieldy structure. Any clear differences in effects between different stages of wind farm construction and operation are incorporated into specific sub headings.