Various characteristics of wind farms incur modification of natural hydrological processes via physical alterations in the landscape, most notably during the construction phase but to a lesser degree during operation and decommissioning. The flows in watercoursesstrongly influence the aquatic ecological communities present, and the building of wind farms can affect water quantity and flow regime. During wind farm construction, vegetation clearance, soil and rock excavation, and soil compactionloosening can all interfere with existing surface hydrology. Increased peak flows and reduced base flows can be detrimental for aquatic biota by affecting physical habitat. Rain falling directly on denuded surfaces alters drainage and runoff patterns for downstream watercourses, potentially eroding banks and edges, and changing the composition of stream beds.;Figure 5.3 The construction of access roads on a wind farm site has potentially the greatest impact on aquatic systems. Roads on a wind farm site often have to cross watercourses and lead to increased runoff with ultimate effects on hydrology, physical habitat structure and water quality. (William OConnor);The impacts of road construction on hydrology are well understood (e.g. Jones et al. 2000 Luce 2002), and the construction or upgrading of access roads on wind farm sites could have similar effects (Figure 5.3). Surfleet et al. (2010) reported that forest roads can have a range of hydrological effects by generating overland flow from compacted surfaces, intercepting subsurface flow at road cuts and altering hillslope hydrological processes. They can also redistribute water on hill slopes, changing the timing of stream flow. Roads can also extend stream channel networks through gullies and alter peak flows at stream crossings. The construction of wind farm sites can also involve extensive forestry operations such as clearfelling and keyholing, and these activities are also well known to affect hydrology (Eisenbies et al. 2007 Hutton et al. 2008). In addition to the impacts of forestry roads described above, runoff will increase from deforested areas.