Habitat fragmentation is one of the leading causes of species loss globally (Fahrig 2003). As long linear ecosystems, rivers and streams are particularly vulnerable to fragmentation. The presence of barriers to migration in rivers (e.g. weirs, dams, culverts, perched bridges, causeways) is considered to be a major factor responsible for the reduction in numbers and distribution of migratory aquatic species (Vander Pluym et al. 2008 Bouska  Paukert 2009).;The construction of wind farms can cause barrier effects to aquatic organisms, mainly as a result of the construction of culverts or bridges over watercourses. Poorly designed culverts can prevent adult fish from reaching favourable spawning areas, thereby reducing available spawning habitat. Negative effects of culverts on the upstream movements of salmonids have been well documented (Hendry et al. 2003 Kemp  Williams 2008), although other migratory species, including eels (Newbold et al. 2014) and lampreys (Lucas et al. 1999), can also be affected. However, non migratory fish species undertaking local movements can also be negatively affected (Warren  Pardew 1998), as may be the natural movements of a range of aquatic macroinvertebrates (Vaughan 2002 Foster  Keller 2011). Culverts can also restrict the downstream flow of wood, leaves and other organic matter on which stream organisms depend as a source of both food and shelter (Webster et al. 2001).;Issues with culverts and bridges can arise where they are either too small or too large for the volume of water in the watercourse, resulting in water velocities being in excess of the swimming capability of the subject fish species or water depths being too shallow. Another major problem with some culverts and bridges is that the upstream section is perched and this may prevent some species from passing upstream, such as invertebrates that do not have a winged, flying phase, or invertebrates and fish that cannot climb or jump, such as lamprey species. Utzinger et al. (1998) concluded that European Bullhead Cottus gobio, a small benthic species of conservation importance, was unable to cross vertical structures of 1820 cm in height, and that populations upstream were vulnerable to population fragmentation, isolation and, ultimately, extinction.