One of the most important factors in bird collision is the topography of the area where the wind farm is installed (Orloff  Flannery 1992 Strickland et al. 1998 Barrios  Rodrguez 2004 Smallwood  Neher 2004 de Lucas et al. 2008). In the mountainous APWRA, Golden Eagles were more susceptible to collision with turbines in canyons, and raptor mortality in general had a relationship withlandscape elements such as slope conditions (Thelander  Smallwood 2007). In comparison, in lowland Flanders in Belgium, Everaert (2014) recorded the highest mortality rates in wind farms close to the coast or important wetlands for birds, although mortality rates varied substantially, from 0 to 125 birds per individual turbine per year.;Smallwood and Neher (2004) georeferenced bird behaviour to relate it to landscape attributes in combination with wind direction. Their results suggested that raptors adjust their flight patterns to capitalise on the wind direction, perhaps to optimise energy expenditure andor position themselves to utilise the wind to make controlled flights when attacking prey. It is important to note that wind turbines sited on the leeward sides of ridges in relation to the prevailing wind direction would expose the rotor plane of operational turbines to raptors about half as frequently as those on the windward side of the ridge.;In the same way, Barrios and Rodrguez (2004) suggested that the interaction between the initial flight height on entering the wind farm and wind speed was a highly significant determinant of collision risk for vultures. Collisions occurred during daylight in good visibility and light winds, and so they concluded that wind relief interaction influenced collision risk, mediated by the birds flight behaviour. Moreover, the site specificity played an important role in vulture mortality (de Lucas et al. 2008). Sites at higher elevation above sea level were more dangerous than ones at lower elevation. Some years later, de Lucas et al. (2012) conducted a thorough analysis of mortality data which revealed significant differences among individual wind turbines due to smallscale topographic features, highlighting the importance of the site selection of individual turbines. A similar conclusion was reached by Everaert and Stienen (2007) for Zeebrugge in relation to a mixed colony of terns.;According to the analysis above (see Factors affecting bird collisions) and Htker et al. (2006) and Madders and Whitfield (2006), birds of prey have been noted to be more prone to collision with wind turbines in comparison to other bird groups. Loss et al. (2013) stated that determining whether individual bird species are vulnerable to population declines as a result of wind turbine collisions is a major conservation objective. As raptors are invariably an uncommon or rare component of bird communities, as well as being subject to historical decline through persecution,