Wind farms are seen to be an essential component of global renewable energy policy and the action to limit the effects of climate change. There is, however, considerable concern over the effects of wind farms on wildlife especially on birds and increasingly on bats. Environmental impact assessment, which has been adopted in many countries, should, in theory, reduce any impacts to an acceptable level. Although a wide range of monitoring and research studies have been undertaken, only a small body of that work appears to make it to the peerreviewed literature. The later is, however, burgeoning, concomitant with the interest in the interactions between wind energy and wildlife as expressed by the continuing CWW (Conference on Wind Energy and Wildlife Impacts) series of international conferences on the topic. In 2015, 391 participants from 33 countries attended CWW 2015 in Berlin. This will hopefully be exceeded at Estoril in Portugal in September 2017. It is hoped that relationships with researchers in key global producers of wind energy such as China and India, and the emerging markets in Brazil and Africa can become established. Lessons learned in mostly temperate Europe and North America need to be applied to subtropical and tropical climes. Here, in areas with higher biodiversity, it will be even more critical first to understand and then reduce and hopefully eliminate impacts upon wildlife. Even with specific knowledge of the literature and participation at CWW meetings, I came to the conclusion that it remained difficult for an interested party to judge possible effects on flora and flora and especially the prospects of ecosystem effects focusing on ecological interactions between affected habitats and their dependent species, or between species, one or more of which could be affected by wind farms. In other words, there was a clear need for a coherent overarching review of potential and actual effects of wind farms, and perhaps even more importantly, once thathad been attained, how impacts could be successfully avoided or mitigated. Understanding the tools available to conduct meaningful research is also clearly fundamental to any research undertaken.;A meeting with Nigel Massen of Pelagic Publishing in Cardiff in late 2012 at the Chartered Institute of Ecology  Environmental Management Renewable Energy and Biodiversity Impacts conference (where else?) crystallised the notion of a current treatise and the opportunity to bring it to reality. Even then, the project could not have been undertaken without the financial support of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd expressed as my time and the administrative help of Dr Sarah Eglington in selecting and inviting many of the authors.;The industry is effectively divided into onshore and offshore disciplines that share many similarities such as potential displacement and collision of birds, but also differences such as the relative importance of noise, in the type and strength of effects upon wildlife. This provided a natural division into two compendia sharing common themes and threads within a similar framework. Each was to document current knowledge of the effects  the conflicts with wildlife  and to provide a stateofthescience guide to the monitoring and assessment tools and the means of avoiding, minimising and mitigating potential impacts  the solutions.;The scope of coverage was to be global, although as a result of the concentration of different forms of the technology in different parts of the world, there was an inevitable bias in experience of the invited authors of the chapters within the different sections. Potential authors were carefully selected from the large number of academics and consultants now engaged in wind farm studies, for their influential contribution to the science. Fortunately, the rate of takeup was high. Many authors also proved keen to significantly extend their chapters, which resulted in the division of the two parts of the onshore compendium into two volumes this one, Volume 1, describing the potential conflicts and Volume 2 outlining the solutions, as described above.;In this Volume 1, the concept was to cover as wide a taxonomic spread as possible starting with Vegetation and including Terrestrial invertebrates, Aquatic invertebrates and fish, Reptiles and amphibians, (nonvolant) Terrestrial mammals as well as Bats and Birds the latter two groups being the sole focus of most previous reviews. The wealth of information on birds required two chapters according to the effects Birds  displacement and Birds  collision. As such, chapters on poorly studied groups were to outline potential as well as realised effects and possible impacts.