In principle, habitat may be permanently lost within a wind farm as a result of the footprint of the turbines themselves, buildings and electrical substations, and access roads. This area is often perceived to be a small proportion of the order of 510 of wind farm area (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3), with the proportional area affected perhaps reducing further as the size of the wind farm increases. More importantly, a variable amount of habitat clearance, modification and alteration may be undertaken during wind farm construction. As reviewed by Silva  Passos in Chapter 3, the type of land cover and topography drives the extent of modification, with farmed or tilled landscapes in flatlands suffering least and forests and elevated mesas with variable topography suffering most, as they are brought under control to make them suitable for the machinery and mechanics of construction. BLM (2005) suggest that as much as 0.41.2 ha of land may have to be cleared for each turbine. However, Barclay et al. (Chapter 9) cite one example where 2.25 ha of forest was cleared around each turbine and converted to grassland.;In a worstcase scenario, construction associated with any large scale development, including roads and other transport links and residential and industrial property as well as wind farms may conceivably cause irreparable damage to sensitive habitats with dramatic consequences for ecosystem form and function. Many wind farms have been constructed on previously highly modified landscapes such as farmland (cropland) on mineral soils or on the heavily grazed (by sheep, cattle or horses) uplands, where there may be relatively little consequence of installing some turbines. This belies the fact that many farmland birds have suffered some of the more serious population declines documented and exposure to potential displacement could cause further damage (Htker, Chapter 7). Nevertheless, there could be a potential benefit if a wind farm allows the land to be taken out of production. There is, however, an increasing trend to site wind farms in forested landscapes (see Helldin et al., Chapter 10, Figure 10.1) with potentially significant consequences for some wildlife groups such as carnivores.