Although one and twobladed wind turbines are available, the European Wind Energy Association (EWEA) notes that threebladed designs are most commonly deployed in commercial wind farms as they are structurally efficient (or balanced), in addition to providing other benefits including lower acoustic noise emissions and visual impacts associated with the less frequent passage of only a single blade or two blades in comparison to three blades (EWEA 2004). To further improve the energy capture of commercial threebladed HAWTs, blade aerodynamics has been a key focus of research and development.;VAWTs can be divided into two major groups Savonius type, which use aerodynamic drag to extract power from the wind and Darrieus type, which use lift (Figure 1.6). The advantages of VAWTs are that they can utilise winds from all directions, unlike traditional HAWTs which need to track the oncoming wind. This is an important advantage in locations where winds are turbulent, gusty and constantly changing direction, such as in towns and cities. The omnidirectional nature of electricity generation in VAWTs also provides mitigation against downtime lost to the requirement to yaw or swivel to face the wind (Boyle 2004). In addition, the location of the gearbox and generator at the base of the turbine allows easy access and therefore generally reduces maintenance costs.;Modern wind turbines have shown a significant increase in size and rotor diameter since the 1970s and 1980s, leading to greater power generation. EWEA (2004) reports that in spite of repeated predictions that turbine size would level off at an optimum mid range, the size of turbines deployed in commercial wind farms has increased year on year. From rotor blade diameters of 1520 m in the 1980s, the commercial market is now ready to deploy turbines with rotor blade diameters greater than 125 m atop hub heights exceeding 100 m, such as the Enercon E126 rated at 7,580 kW (Enercon 2015). Permitting applications for onshore wind farms in the UK regularly assume a turbine tip height of around 150 m for the purpose of impact assessment. Offshore, wind turbine sizes are even larger, as shown by planning permission for Creyke Beck offshore wind farm (Forewind 2013), which incorporates 10,000 kW (or larger) wind turbines with a maximum blade tip height of 313 m above sea level. For further information on the nature of offshore wind turbines, see Jameson et al, Chapter 1, Volume 3 of this series.