Similarly, Miller et al. (2014) also tracked Golden Eagles to estimate their collision risk in three topographically distinct regions and developed a spatial modelbased framework. Their models showed that lowflying eagles consistently selected areas of high updraught potential. Southfacing slopes, which deflect south winds and generate springtime thermals, were associated with low altitude flight in most regions. However, because eagles selected resources based on the weather conditions they experienced when flying, other topographic resources were also important for migration. In a variable meteorological environment, the location of the best lift, and thus the location of the greatest risk, depends on the shape and roughness of the terrain. Their models implied that turbines along northsouth ridges pose a greater risk to spring migration eagles than turbines along the northeastsouthwest oriented ridges. This was because spring migrants moved almost directly north along these ridges until they reached the plateau,where their migration proceeded northnortheast.;The first mathematical model to identify which variables could be manipulated to reduce the probability of birds colliding with the blades was developed by Tucker (1996). He suggested that the safest turbine had a large diameter, a low tipspeed ratio and a large region near the rotor hub where the blades move more slowly than a threshold speed, below which birds could avoid the blades. However, Howell (1997) analysed bird mortality over 7 years in two types of turbines with different blade diameters of 18.5 and 33 m, and found that mortality at the differentsized turbines was effectively the same. This apparent contradiction may be explained by the relatively small size of both turbine models and the possibility that the threshold speed of avoidance was not reached.;In laboratory simulations, Hodos (2003) modelled the distance at which patterns maintain their visibility for different turbine diameters and rotation rates, and concluded that as the blade diameter increases, the minimum distance at which a visual deterrent will be visible also increases. In addition, larger turbines tend to operate at lower revolutions per minute, which maintain a more or less constant tip velocity. However, staggeredstripe patterns on the larger, slower turbines made them more visible at greater distance than smaller, faster models. The paradoxical conclusion was that the larger, slower turbines pose a greater hazard to birds in the region of the tip than do the smaller, faster turbines, because they would become virtually invisible at distances up to 25 m.;Barclay et al. (2007) analysed the characteristics of 33 North American wind farms in terms of the number of turbines, rotor diameter, tower height and installed megawatts in relation to bird and bat fatalities. They concluded that rotorswept area did not influence the rate of bird or bat fatality, and there was no evidence that taller turbine towers were associated with increased bird fatalities, as fatality rate was constant with tower height. As a result, they suggested replacing older, smaller turbines with fewer larger ones as it should reduce bird fatalities per megawatt output delivered. In the APWRA, Thelander and Smallwood (2007) also concluded that rotor diameter appeared to make little difference to fatality rates, but turbines operating at greater rates or tip speeds killed more birds and tubular towers killed more raptors than did