Once the attributes and constraints have been complied, a risk based approach is used to examine attributes (both positive and negative) and uncertainties to identify sites with the greatest potential. A site visit is often required to allow developers to use experience and human judgement to make a final assessment. At some locations it may be necessary to erect meteorological towers to provide extra information on wind resource and feed into the decisionmaking process, in addition to preliminary consultation with key stakeholders to gain local knowledge and opinion. Windflow modelling may also be undertaken during site selection or early in the preapplication stage. Wind speeds can vary considerably across a wind farm site if the terrain is undulating rather than flat. Wind flow modelling software is used to calculate these variations in wind speed, allowing the placement of wind turbines in the site to optimise the wind resource.;The preapplication stage covers the period between identification of a potential or preferred wind farm site(s) through to application for a permit or consent to construct the project. In most countries around the world, EIA is a key focus and requirement of this stage, as discussed in Planning and statutory requirements (see above), owing to the potential impacts associated with poorly sited wind farms discussed in the Introduction section of this chapter. The EIA process is typically seen as a series of steps with a number of key components, namely screening, scoping and assessment of the potential impacts, against which public consultation is undertaken before a decision to consent (or modify or reject) is made (Figure 1.9).;Screening is the process of determining whether a proposed project requires an EIA based on the expected impact(s) of the project and its relative significance. This process is generally undertaken by the regulator (the decisionmaking authority), such as local or national government, and results in one of four main outcomes (Salvador et al. 2000);Figure 1.9 Basic Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process and components.;Most countries around the world, including the UK, list the type of projects that require mandatory EIA in legislation (Christensen  Krnv 2011), negating the strict need for screening. Wind farm proposals are generally included in these lists and, as a result, some projects may skip this stage and proceed directly to scoping.