Migrating birds have been shown to avoid wind turbines from a distance of up to 13 km (Kahlert et al. 2004 Pettersson 2005 Granr et al. 2013), suggesting a visual response to the turbines. To the authors knowledge, there are no studies of similar responses for terrestrial mammals, although it can be argued that large mammals in open habitats would have similar potential to spot turbines from large distances. Studies of Reindeer and Caribou (also R. tarandus) in open landscapes suggest that they avoid roads and large powerlines from comparable distances (Vistnes et al. 2004 Vistnes  Nellemann 2008).;While very few studies show effects of noise or visual cues from wind turbines, papers showing no effect are equally rare. Given the sensitivity of many species to sound and light, the impact from turbine noise and visual cues such as flickering from blades are areas that require study (Lovich  Ennen 2013).;Wind power development may result in an increased human presence in the farm area. Disturbance from traffic and human presence may increase levels of stress (Creel et al. 2002 Barja et al. 2007) and affect mammal activity and movement patterns for several hours after the disturbance has occurred (Andersen et al. 1996 Olsson et al. 2007 Naylor et al. 2008). For ruminants, loss of grazing time means loss of energy intake owing to the constraints of the rumination process (Colman et al. 2003). Human disturbance may also result in longterm effects in the form of decreased survival and reproductive success (Frid  Dill 2002), or simply avoidance of areas with high levels of disturbance, and hence represent an effective loss of habitat (George  Crooks 2006 Rogala et al. 2011). Thus, disturbance may reduce population size (Gill et al. 2001).;Human disturbance in wind farms can be expected to be particularly severe during construction (and repowering) relative to operation (PearceHiggins et al. 2012). The construction phase may last for a couple of weeks for single turbines up to many years for large wind farms with hundreds of turbines. For example, Grey Wolf with longestablished denning sites in areas to be developed for wind power temporarily halted reproduction during construction, and subsequently moved denning sites away from the area (lvares et al. 2011) (Box 10.1). Studies of Wapiti (Walter et al. 2006) and its European counterpart, Red Deer Cervus elaphus (Veiberg  Pedersen 2010), also indicated an avoidance of the wind farm area during the construction phase. No total avoidance was, however, exhibited in any of the species. In the study of Wapiti, animals redistributed within their home ranges, but no change in home range size or effects on the population level were noted. In the case of Red Deer, the use of the area appeared to return to its preconstruction level shortly after construction was completed.;Maintenance of operational wind farms typically only requires a low level of human presence and utility traffic. Of the very few studies found on the effects of wind farm roads (Figure 10.2 and