The construction of wind farms may trigger changes in hydrology, soils and vegetation (see Habitat loss and modification above) that have farreaching effects, both in physical extent if watercourses are affected (OConnor, Chapter 5), but also through foodweb effects that can cascade across trophic levels beginning with plants (Silva  Passos, Chapter 3) and extending to invertebrates (Elzay et al., Chapter 4) and their predators in other trophic levels. In short, the ecology of a wind farm may be fundamentally affected. Curious then, that there seems to be little, if any, fundamental research into such effects. This is mirrored, however, by the lack of research onprocesses such as habitat fragmentation (see Roads and vehicles above) and even on the accidental introduction of alien plant species and their effects (see Alien invasion above).;Figure 11.11 Mist at Slieve Divena wind farm in Northern Ireland. By changing patterns of energy flow through turbulence operational wind farms create their own microclimate. The effects of this on vegetation are poorly understood, although there is some evidence from the temperate uplands that the downdraft of moist air onto the ground surface may promote moistureloving species such as mosses. (Renewable Energy Systems Limited);Recent research is, however, beginning to unravel the climatic effects that are caused during the operation of wind farms (see Takle, Chapter 2). At one Scottish site, Armstrong et al. (2016) showed that air temperature and absolute humidity were raised by operational turbines at night and increased variability in air, surface and soil temperature throughout the diurnal cycle (Figure 11.11), although such effects on groundlevel microclimate conditions had uncertain implications for biogeochemical processes and ecosystem carbon cycling including soil carbon. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that changes in microclimate exhibited in this study, supporting the work presented by Takle in Chapter 2, could conceivably instigate changes in vegetation composition. Indeed, in another Scottish peatland wind farm Dargie (2012) described an increase in Sphagnum moss cover in all six habitat types sampled, with an overall increase from 12 to 37 cover (maximum increase in cover of 47 in one habitat) in eight years. This was despite an increase in the negative effects of cattle trampling and grazing. Sphagnum is extremely important in the formation and maintenance of bogs, which have a unique floral and faunal assemblage including many specialist invertebrates as well as breeding birds. The vegetation changes observed by Dargie (2012) support the view of