Habitat fragmentation is often defined as a process during which a large expanse of habitat is transformed into a number of smaller patches of smaller total area, isolated from each other by a matrix of habitats, unlike the original. The negative effects of habitat loss and fragmentation on biodiversity (both flora and fauna) are well known (Wilcove et al. 1984 Fahrig 2003). One of the problems withfragmentation is the edge effect, whereby a different plant community suited to the different conditions is favoured (Wilcove et al. 1984 Fahrig 2003).;A further, less wellknown, indirect effect linked to the construction of wind farms is soil compaction. High levels of soil compaction are common in heavily used construction sites. Soil structure and hydrology may be altered through increasing soil bulk density breaking down of soil aggregates decreasing soil porosity, aeration and infiltration capacity and increasing soil strength, water runoff and soil erosion. As a result, some physiological dysfunctions in plants can develop, such as reduced absorption of the major mineral nutrients, which can lead later to poor vegetation recovery (Kozlowski 1999) Figure 3.4). Other indirect effects may result from changes in runoff patterns and even an intensification of erosion, as well as changes in trophic equilibria due to increasing nitrogen or other nutrients.;Landscape devaluation is a patent effect that can easily be detected after construction. The infrastructure that is required to support an array of turbines such as roads and transmission lines may represent an even larger potential threat to wildlife than the turbines themselves. Most of the negative effects of wind farms on vegetation arise from the opening of roads, increased accessibility and the restoration activities that allow the colonisation of important habitats by pioneer and synanthropic and alien species from disturbed habitats (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Fraga et al. 2008). These are permanent effects, which will occur as long as the wind farm exists. Indirect effects linked to the opening of roads and the increase in accessibility also include the change of land use in their vicinity, the increase in grazing of important habitats, and traffic pollution causing a progressive deterioration of the environment (Fraga et al. 2008).;There have been some comprehensive studies about the indirect effects of wind farms on habitats, for example, in plant diversity. Of importance is the study by Fraga et al. (2008) on the effects of wind farms on the plant species and vegetation diversity of blanket bog on summits and slopes in the Xistral Mountains (northwest Spain), where priority habitats exist (EU Habitats Directive, code 7130 blanket bog). The original surveyed area was mainly covered by characteristic communities, which are endemic to the Xistral Mountains and usually form very homogeneous vegetation. However, alteration to the vegetation occurred within a very short