The construction phase involves the removal and destruction of the existing vegetation, and earthmoving for construction of the wind farm and its infrastructure (Box 3.1). Some infrastructure will remain permanently in the area, such as the wind turbines and their foundations, substation, access roads, drainage and underground cable networks. The most important actions are those involving these final structures, which lead to permanent occupation of the space. This means that vegetation will not recover in these locations, at least during the projects lifetime (Bio3 2012a). Other infrastructure built during the construction phase, such as platforms and delivery and storage areas, is temporary. These are completely removed and usually recovered at the end of this phase, which means that they will be eventually recolonised by vegetation (Bio3 2012a).;The intervention area needed for construction depends on the minimum area required to accommodate large machinery, such as large cranes and trucks. It also depends on the wide turning radius required to accommodate trucks hauling turbine blades in excess of 40 m, especially in mountainous terrain. (Arnett et al. 2007). Wind facilities can cover relatively large areas of several square kilometres, but have relatively low direct impact on the project area Bureau of Land Management (BLM) 2005 Arnett et al. 2007. The BLM Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement estimated that the permanent footprint of a facility is 510 of the site, including turbines, roads, buildings and transmission lines.;Information on actual vegetation loss was estimated in a review of permitting documents for 17 facilities or those under construction (BLM 2005). The geographic context of wind farms plays a fundamental role in the levels of actual or forecast impact. Geographic variables, such as land cover and topography, are more likely than turbinespecific variables to drive levels of land transformation. For instance, tilled landscapes, despite larger distances between turbines, have lower average land transformation, while facilities in forested landscapes generally have the highest land transformation. Flat topographies have the lowest land transformation, while facilities on mesas (an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs), for example, have the largest (Diffendorfer  Compton 2014).