Birds are very mobile. Some species such as raptors have large home ranges, whereas many more species are migratory and travel thousands of kilometres twice a year. The chance of encountering wind farms during at least parts of their annual cycle is very high. Even if breeding in very remote regions without wind farms such as the high Arctic, migratory birds may come into contact with wind farms during migration, at staging sites or on their winteringgrounds. International cooperation is therefore required to protect migratory species and especially longdistance migrants that depend on specific stopover sites for refuelling during migration. The protection of migratory birds is an integral part of several international conventions, such as the Convention of Migratory Species (www.cms.int) or the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve Network (www.whsrn.org). Displacement is therefore included in international as well as national guidelines that were set up to reduce conflicts between wind energy development and nature conservation LnderArbeitsgemeinschaft der Vogelschutzwarten 2007 European Commission (EC) 2010. With the predicted increase in numbers and hence regional densities of wind farms, displacement of birds will became an even more critical issue in the future. In turn, this provides a compelling need to document what is currently known.;Several reviews of displacement of birds from wind farms have been conducted (Langston  Pullan 2003 Drewitt  Langston 2006 Arnett et al. 2007 Htker 2008 EC 2010), but more recent studies on the topic are available, and this chapter provides an update. In addition, there is a need to examine the evidence of the influence of new factors that may influence the extent of displacement. The questions to be answered are;A review of the existing literature was conducted through an internet search using Google Scholar and by a hand search of collected journals and books. Data from a former review (Htker 2008) were also reanalysed together with new data extracted from more recent literature. This chapter does not deal with avoidance rates as utilised in models to predict collision rates (Band et al. 2007), which measure the probability that a bird approaching a