Unfortunately, this is not usually achieved because the impacts often outlast the period covered by the projects EIA and Management Plan (Fraga et al. 2008). Indeed, the authors are unaware of specific studies or monitoring performed on these specific projects or in wind farms. It is also difficult to detect or even develop guidelines to detect genetic contamination as sufficient information is rarely available, with this mostly based on neutral genetic markers and not the adaptive portions of the genome, the risk of contamination is context dependent, there are different spatial scales of adaptation for different traits, and it is difficult to determine adaptive genetic variation for threatened or endangered species (Rogers 2007).;Some studies have shown that the presence and operation of wind farms can cause changes in local atmospheric conditions and heat and water transfer at the soil surface (Zhou et al. 2012). The modelling study by Zhou et al. (2012) showed that wind farms could significantly affect local surface temperature by increasing surface roughness, changing the stability of the atmospheric boundary layer and enhancing turbulence in the rotor wakes. A significant warming trend of up to 0.72C per decade was predicted, particularly at nighttime, in areas with wind farms relative to nearby areas without them. The actual effects on plant communities of atmospheric changes are still poorly understood, and as a consequence have been poorly assessed in EIA, despite the potentially permanent nature of effects during the operational phase.;Moreover, studies using global and regional climate models have shown that extremely large wind farms may have strong impacts on weather and climate at these scales (Baidya Roy et al. 2004 Baidya Roy 2011). Results from studies in the USA indicate that wind farms significantly affect nearsurface air temperature and humidity as well as surface sensible and latent heat fluxes that may extend a significant distance (up to 23 km) downwind from the edge in any size of wind farm (Baidya Roy et al. 2004 Baidya Roy 2011).