Water quality has a critical influence on the structure and functioning of aquatic ecological communities, and it is imperative that this is maintained or even improved during development. Almost all construction projects pose a potential risk of causing water pollution, and the construction works associated with installing turbine bases, access roads, substations and the electrical cable network on wind farm sites are no exception. Although the main conflict between aquatic organisms and their habitats seems likely to occur as a result of construction phase impacts, pollution with surface drainage water from paved areas and track surfacescan also potentially occur during the operation phase as an indirect impact. Likewise, works associated with decommissioning or repowering of a wind farm project could also lead to water quality issues (Welstead et al. 2013). Any direct or indirect impacts of pollution potentially affect receptors a considerable distance downstream. Wind farms are often located in upland areas near the headwaters of streams, which have a reduced ability to assimilate and dilute pollutants. They may also be home to sensitive invertebrates such as Freshwater Pearl Mussel (Box 5.1) or fish species such as salmonids, which can use upland streams for their nursery stages (Figure 5.2). Upland areas also have an increased risk of erosion or landslides, although impacts can also occur on low slopes, where ditching and rerouting of water will be required.;Figure 5.2 Even small watercourses on wind farm sites can contain important fish populations Atlantic Salmon Salmo salar parr from a stream on a proposed wind farm site in the west of Ireland. (William OConnor);During the construction phase, the main pollutant of concern is suspended solids produced by runoff of rainfall from areas disturbed by construction works (Pitt et al. 2006), forestry clearance operations (Rodgers et al. 2010) or instream works associated with the installation of bridges or cable crossings of watercourses. The possibility of erosion and source of sediment to the aquatic environment arises from the removal of vegetation and tree cover and the excavation of subsoil material. Runoff can cause unconsolidated fine particles to be eroded from the surfaces of spoil heaps, excavated surfaces and the side slopes of access roads before