This chapter considers the conflicts that wind farm development can have with aquatic organisms and their habitats. It is based on a deskreview, which included extensive searches of published scientific literature, guidance manuals and unpublished Environmental Impact Assessment documents. It also relies on the authors experience of wind energy developments in Ireland. As a relatively wet country, Ireland has an abundance of aquatic habitats and species and also a welldeveloped and expanding wind energy sector. By August 2016 there were 206 wind farms online and operational in the Republic of Ireland, with an installed capacity of 2,441 MW, and a further 34 operational wind farms in Northern Ireland with a capacity of 642 MW Irish Wind Energy Association (IWEA) 2016. There have also been a few cases of serious impacts on aquatic areas in Ireland as a result of wind farm construction (Fleming 2003 Lindsay  Bragg 2005 Dykes  Jennings 2011).;There is a paucity of published literature on the effects of wind farms and aquatic organisms. Indeed, Tosh et al. (2014) noted that there were no published studies on the effect of wind farm developments on aquatic ecosystems or species. A recent study by Millidine et al. (2015) appears to be the only comprehensive assessment undertaken, and this study also noted that there have been few previous investigations in relation to this topic. It is thought that the issue of aquatic organisms and wind farms has received little attention in the scientific literature because building wind farms and associated infrastructure can be considered to have similar effects to other construction projects and the impacts of these are already relatively well understood. Therefore, this chapter largely discusses potential rather than proven impacts and relies on examples derived from other types of comparable construction activity.;Effects on physical habitat, water quality and quantity, barriers to movement, noise and vibration, and the spread of invasive species are important themes that are discussed below. The types of impacts identified can be expected to occur at any onshore wind farm development site around the world, although the magnitude and significance of these impacts will vary greatly depending on factors such as project characteristics, topography and climate, and the sensitivity of the aquatic ecological receptors present. Onshore wind farms built in coastal areas also have the potential to affect estuarine and marine organisms and their habitats indirectly. Although this chapter is concerned with potential impacts on freshwater habitats, it is clear that many similar impacts would also arise in relation to coastal and transitional waters.