While all developments will affect the environment to some degree, the significance of the impacts may increase when multiple factors or actions are combined. The impact may even exceed the sum of the individual effects (Canter  Kamath 1995). Such cumulative effects will be relevant to wind power developments, either when effects from different factors combine or when the effects of one factor extend over larger areas through further development. For example, the assessments of individual infrastructure development projects may seriously underestimate the longterm effects of an entire expanding infrastructure network (Nellemann et al. 2003). Cumulative effects of multiple developments and road networks have been described for a number of mammals, such as Wapiti (Frair et al. 2008), ReindeerCaribou (Nellemann et al. 2003 Johnson et al. 2005), large carnivores (Johnson et al. 2005) and small mammals (McGregor et al. 2008). The larger mammals have been suggested to be particularly sensitive to processes at the landscape level (Thornton et al. 2011) or at larger geographic scales (Vistnes  Nellemann 2008), owing to their large area requirements.;With the present level of knowledge, it is difficult to predict whether the ecological effects from a wind farm will be larger or smaller in humandominated landscapes where several developments already exist than in undisturbed landscapes. Any assessment of the impact from development of wind power must take other developments into consideration. In general, insufficient focus is put on cumulative effects in all developments (Cooper  Sheate 2002 Folkeson et al. 2012), including wind farms (Fox et al. 2006 Masden et al. 2010).;While scientific literature on the impacts of wind farms on non flying terrestrial mammals is in short supply, this review makes it obvious that effects on these species cannot be ruled out. Although effects may be complex and difficult to predict, concern is raised particularly for larger mammals because of their dependence on undisturbed refugia and suggested sensitivity to landscapescale impacts. Some of these species may indeed routinely inhabit managed landscapes with frequent human presence, therefore being more tolerant to disturbances and possibly less likely to be negatively affected. However, even in such landscapes, patches of relatively undisturbed habitats may be a limiting factor, and any