A review was conducted of all the peerreviewed scientific publications that could be found on the known and potential effects of wind farm development, operation, maintenance and decommissioning on reptiles and amphibians (collectively herpetofauna) worldwide. Both groups are declining globally owing to a multitude of threats, including energy development. Effect studies were limited to the longterm research by the authors on Agassizs Desert Tortoise ecology and behaviour at a single operational wind farm in California, USA, and an analysis of the effects of wind farm installation on the species richness of vertebrates, including reptiles and amphibians, in northwestern Portugal. Research on Agassizs Desert Tortoise found few demonstrable differences in biological parameters between populations in the wind farm and those in more natural habitats. High reproductive output is due to the regional climate and not to the presence or operation of the wind farm. Site operations have resulted in death and injury to a small number of adult tortoises and over the long term tortoises now appear to avoid the areas of greatest turbine concentration. Research in Portugal using models and simulations based on empirical data shows that vertebrate species richness (including herpetofauna) decreased by almost 20 after the installation of only two large monopole turbines per 250  250 m plot. Knowledge of the known responses of herpetofauna to various disturbances allows identification of potential impacts from construction material acquisition in offsite areas, mortality and stress due to impacts of roads and related infrastructure, destruction and modification of habitat, habitat fragmentation and barriers to gene flow, noise, vibration, electromagnetic field generation, heat from buried highvoltage transmission lines,alteration of local and regional climate, predator attraction and increased risk of fire. Research on herpetofauna lags far behind what is needed and, in particular, beforeafter controlimpact studies are critically needed to identify causeandeffect relationships in order to develop effective mitigation strategies for any negative impacts.;Continued technological advances in the efficient harvest of wind energy now allow for the installation and operation of wind energy turbines on an unprecedented scale. While wind power is a green technology (Abbasi  Abbasi 2000) that should lead to reductions in negative environmental impacts (e.g. reduced carbon emissions from the use of fossil fuels), it is important to recognise that there are environmental consequences associated with the development of all forms of renewable energy (Lovich  Ennen 2011 Hernandez et al. 2014). Achieving a winwin for wind energy and wildlife (Kiesecker et al. 2011) is limited by our understanding of the environmental effects of wind farms, and several reviews underscore the dearth of empirically derived data available in scientific publications to fully assess the direct and indirect effects upon wildlife (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Northrup  Wittemyer 2012 Katzner et al. 2013 Lovich  Ennen 2013a). Further research is critically needed to identify, mitigate or eliminate negative impacts to wildlife while enhancing the positive benefits of renewables for society.;This chapter asks the question, What is known about the potential impacts (neutral, negative and positive) of wind energy development on reptiles and amphibians (collectively referred to as herpetofauna)? There are two major reasons why attention should be focused on reptiles and amphibians. First, both groups are globally imperilled owing to disproportionately high rates of extinction and the status of many as threatened or endangered species (Gibbons et al. 2000 Beebee  Griffiths 2005). Renewable energy development and operation may be a further risk to the conservation and management of herpetofauna, on top of already existing major threats including habitat loss and degradation, introduced invasive species, environmental pollution, disease, unsustainable use and climate change (Gibbons et al. 2000).