2004 Whiles et al. 2006). Despite the importance of herpetofauna to ecosystem functions, there is a bias against publication of studies on reptiles and amphibians (Bonnet et al. 2002 Christoffel  Lepczyk 2012). This bias contributes to any limitation of the scale and scope of the literature on the effects of wind farms on herpetofauna.;A search was conducted for published information on both the known and potential effects of wind farms on all major groups of reptiles and amphibians. Here, the term reptile is used in the traditional sense (Harding 2006) to include amphisbaenians, crocodilians, lizards, snakes and turtles including tortoises. Amphibians include caecilians, frogs, toads, newts and salamanders. Following earlier reviews of the effects of solar (Lovich  Ennen 2011) and wind (Lovich  Ennen 2013a) energy development on nonvolant (nonflying) wildlife (i.e. not birds or bats), this review focuses on information within peerreviewed scientific journals as the gold standard for veracity.;In a review of the known and potential effects of wind farms on nonvolant wildlife (Lovich  Ennen 2013a), coverage of topics under the general framework of a lifecycle analysis considered the following stages effects due to construction (including offsite impacts), operation and maintenance, and decommissioning. Perhaps contrary to expectations, the construction stage may have more of an impact on wildlife than operation (PearceHiggins et al. 2012). A more complete breakdown of stages would include production and delivery of energy and raw materials, components manufacturing, transportation of components, installation, maintenance, disassembly and disposal (Ardente et al. 2008). Because there is overlap between various effects and project stages, that is, herpetofauna mortality can occur during any project stage listed above, this review simply lists the known and potential effects and cites the supporting evidence.;Only two research projects explicitly investigate the effects of wind farms on reptiles and amphibians, including the present authors ongoing longterm research on Agassizs Desert Tortoise Gopherus agassizii in the USA (Box 6.1) (e.g. Lovich  Daniels 2000 Lovich et al. 2011a 2011b 2011c 2012 2015 Ennen et al. 2012a Agha et al. 2015a) and the work of Santos et al. (2010) assessing the responses of a community of reptiles and amphibians to wind farm