As a result of their high collision rates (see Chapter 8 in this volume), raptors (Accipitriformes and Falconiformes) have been the focus of many research studies, providing the opportunity to test for displacement. By definition, species that collide with turbines at high rates, such as vultures, and some eagles, do not actively avoid wind farms (Thelander et al. 2003 de Lucas et al. 2004 Hull  Muir 2013). Therefore, many studies showed that raptors were not disturbed, or were only slightly disturbed by wind farms. For example, Straer (2006) found that Red Kite Milvus milvus (Figure 7.2), Black Kite Milvus migrans, Common Buzzard Buteo buteo and Common Kestrel did not show any avoidance behaviour towards wind farms, although Marsh Harrier Circus aeruginosus seemed to be displaced to some extent. A telemetry study of Red Kite by Mammen et al. (2014) yielded a similar lack of effect, and summarising studies of Hen Harriers Circus cyaneus, Whitfield and Madders (2006) concluded that displacement (on a small scale) due to wind farms was recorded in only one of eight studies. Similarly, Grajetzky and Nehls (2014), Joest et al. (2014) and Rasran and Thomsen (2014) did not find statistical evidence for displacement of Montagus Harrier Circus pygargus in Germany. Nonetheless, there is some evidence for displacement of raptors, such as that documentedby Garvin et al. (2011), who found a postconstruction reduction of overall raptor abundance of 47 on average. Reductions were statistically significant for Redtailed Hawk Buteo jamaicensis and Turkey Vulture Cathartes aura. Farfan et al. (2009) presented similar results for their study on Common Kestrels in southern Spain. In contrast, Bevanger et al. (2010) concluded that Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla on Smla in Norway did not seem to display any behavioural response to the construction of a wind farm. But, in a later study of the same population, Dahl et al. (2012) showed that breeding success per territory was reduced close to the wind farm (see Consequences for nature conservation, below). A reduction in the density of breeding Common Buzzard and Hen Harrier within a 500 m buffer of the outermost turbines of wind farms was noted by PearceHiggins et al. (2009) in Scotland, and Scheller (2009) described avoidance of wind farms by Lesser Spotted Eagle Aquila pomarina in Germany. For migrating raptors, Ross (2009) found hardly any avoidance of wind farms at BaiedesSables in Canada, but VillegasPatraca et al. (2014) found a strong avoidance pattern during autumn and a possible avoidance pattern during spring.;Figure 7.2 Red Kite Milvus milvus shows hardly any avoidance of wind farms and as a result is one of the most commonly recorded victims of collision in Germany. (Margret BunzelDrke);For Galliform birds (grouse, pheasants and their allied species), the information on impacts due to displacement by wind farms is variable. Devereux et al. (2008) found that the distribution of Common Pheasant Phasianus colchicus was negatively affected by the presence of wind turbines. For Black Grouse Tetrao tetrix, Zeiler and GrnschachnerBerger (2009) showed that numbers dropped after the construction of a wind farm, but remained stable at