The body of work referenced in the chapters in this volume is probably only a fraction of that represented in the grey literature of assessment documentation. Much interesting and rigorous work may have been undertaken but just not published, which is frustrating. Part of the reason may be that researchers and the developers of wind farms have different objectives or goals, in thatthe developer wants to see the wind farm installed and operational at minimum cost and without any concern from conservation bodies and regulators of an impact upon interesting species and habitats, whereas researchers may desire an elegant study design and a clear proof of a theory in order to publish their work in a ranked journal. Much work is also undertaken by consulting firms that do not routinely include publishing in the wider scientific literature in their remit of what are otherwise generally high professional standards. Nevertheless, there is clear potential for publishing in forums such as Environmental Impact Assessment Review, Environmental Management and more specifically Renewable Energy and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, which tend to concentrate on concepts and methodology rather than delivering highquality results of monitoring that readily fit into the higherranked ecological journals.;It is also striking that the majority of information reviewed is derived from North America and Europe, with a relatively limited number of research groups tending to contribute an unequally high proportion of what may be seen to be influential reports and papers on a relatively limited number of species in a few localities. In turn, it is worrying that this volume contains no information from China or India, respectively the first and fifth largest global producers of wind energy. It is essential to foster links with researchers in these countries, perhaps through specific invitation to the CWW series in the first instance. There must also be a focus on disseminating information to those nations poised to invest in wind energy, as they are best placed to painlessly learn from previous experiences and adopt the best means of reducing effects on wildlife. This will be crucial in countries with naturally high biodiversity, such as in the tropics and subtropics.;The disparity in the level of information on the different groups of flora and fauna potentially affected by wind farms should be immediately apparent to any reader of the chapters in this volume. In keeping with what are thought to be the most prevalent and pervasive effects involving the mortality of the individual, it is the collision of birds and bats that has attracted most attention. The displacement of birds is also seen to be a key issue, perhaps especially in Europe, with some limited, but growing interest in the effects upon mammals, especially larger herbivores and carnivores. The level of the perceived significance of effects reflects the greater level of public interest in the higher trophic levels, particularly the risks to populations of majestic birds of prey.