This chapter reviews the understanding of the potential effects of wind power construction and operation on wild (i.e. excluding semidomestic populations of species such as Reindeer Rangifer tarandus) terrestrial nonflying mammals. Owing to the limited availability of studies of wind power per se, attempts were also made to utilise lessons from studies of related exploitation projects, principles from the wider ecological literature and the potential for similar effects on better studied taxa such as birds. This review is based mainly on peerreviewed scientific publications retrieved through searches in Web of Knowledge and Google Scholar conducted in 2011 and in 2014. In addition, the authors incorporated some recent relevant technical reports and conference papers after making an assessment of their scientific quality based on the presentation of original data, methods and analyses used and robustness of the conclusions. As such, only those reports that the authors considered to be reliable were included. Finally, prioritiesfor further research are proposed, along with management decisions that should be taken to increase the level of knowledge and reduce the risk of negative effects from future wind power development on terrestrial mammals.;Occasional observations of large mammals such as ungulates or carnivores in wind farms have at times erroneously been taken as evidence for a lack of effect of wind power development on these taxa (e.g. Wind Power Commission 1999). The few studies addressing abundance of terrestrial mammals in operational wind farms in a more scientific manner show varying results.;After wind farm construction in relatively undisturbed hills in otherwise highly humanised landscapes in Portugal, breeding groups of Grey Wolf Canis lupus continued to use previously undisturbed refugia after construction, but moved denning sites away from the area shortly after the onset of the operational phase (lvares et al. 2011) (Box 10.1). Preliminary analysis from a study of mesocarnivores in an agricultural area of Kansas indicated a lower abundance of Coyote Canis latrans in the wind farm compared to a reference area, and a lower abundance in the proximity of roads and turbines (Tanis  Finck 2012). There were no statistically significant results for Swift Fox Vulpes velox, the other abundant carnivore in the area.;In a study of Roe Deer Capreolus capreolus, European Hare Lepus europaeus and Red Fox Vulpes vulpes in an agricultural area of Germany, there were no differences in abundance estimates between wind farms and reference areas, and the abundance of each species was similar at a number of specified distances up to 1,000 m from the turbines (Menzel  Pohlmeyer 1999). Similarly, studies of Pronghorn (Taylor 2014) (Box 10.2) and Wapiti Cervus elaphus (Walter et al. 2006) showed no displacement by wind turbines. In a study of the small mammal community in Spanish coastal hills, population estimates did not differ significantly between a wind farm and a reference area, but in that case any effects may have been concealed by the large variation in small mammal abundance due to intrinsic population factors (de Lucas et al. 2005).