Barclay et al. (2007) analysed the characteristics of 33 North American wind farms in terms of the number of turbines, rotor diameter, tower height and installed megawatts in relation to bird and bat fatalities. They concluded that rotorswept area did not influence the rate of bird or bat fatality, and there was no evidence that taller turbine towers were associated with increased bird fatalities, as fatality rate was constant with tower height. As a result, they suggested replacing older, smaller turbines with fewer larger ones as it should reduce bird fatalities per megawatt output delivered. In the APWRA, Thelander and Smallwood (2007) also concluded that rotor diameter appeared to make little difference to fatality rates, but turbines operating at greater rates or tip speeds killed more birds and tubular towers killed more raptors than didother tower types. Following the repowering of some wind farms in the nearby Diablo Winds Energy Project with new, more widely spaced turbines operating at lower rotor speed, Smallwood and Karas (2009) showed that fatality rates were 54 and 66 lower for raptors and all birds, respectively, at the new turbines compared to oldgeneration models monitored at the same time.;In a review of all available reports of bird fatality rates in North America, Smallwood (2013) went on to conclude that there was an inverse correlation between raptor fatality rates and increasing wind turbine size. However, in another review of several studies in the USA and Canada, Loss et al. (2013) found a positive relationship between bird collision mortality and turbine hub height, but this approach only included wind turbines with solid monopole towers and the metric for turbine size was different from the study of Smallwood (2013). For passerines, the review of Erickson et al. (2014) did not find a linear correlation between turbine height and fatality rates, and suggested that other factors such as geographic location or turbine age may confound the effect of tower height.;Krijgsveld et al. (2009) also reported that the collision risk of birds with larger multimegawatt wind turbines was similar to that with smaller, earlier generation turbines, although this was perhaps due to the use of data only from nocturnal fluxes. Htker et al. (2006) also found no significant relationship between mortality rate and the size of wind turbines near wetlands and mountain ridges. At Zeebrugge in Belgium, older turbines were replaced by larger, higher ones, which decreased the number of collision fatalities among the terns breeding nearby (Everaert 2014). To date, no significant relationship between the number of collision fatalities and the rotorswept area of the turbines has been detected, although the study is still ongoing.;The current tendency in wind energy development is to increase turbine rotor diameter and tower height, resulting in greater energy output per turbine. In turn, this implies an increase in height, blade diameter and distance between turbines, and a decrease in rotor speed. Overall, fewer collisions, particularly in relation to megawatt output, are predicted (see Rates of collision, above).