Environmental attributes associated with tortoise burrows were compared to the same suite of attributes at random locations with no burrows. Variables measured included slope, aspect, elevation, and distance to the nearest of various plant species and features in the landscape. Multivariate statistical analysis demonstrated that mean attributes for burrow locations were significantly different from locations without burrows. Additional analysis revealed that distance to roads and turbine foundations explained more of the variation in burrow location than any other principal component, with burrows being significantly closer to roads and turbine foundations than random points. Lovich and Daniels (2000) suggested that this could be because (1) the topography of berms along roads mimics the banks along ephemeral desertwashes where tortoises often construct burrows in natural habitats (2) dirt and paved roads exhibit enhanced growth of both perennial and annual plants (see review in Lovich  Bainbridge 1999), the latter of which are the main food source for G. agassizii and (3) tortoises may use the roads for ease of movement in the topographically diverse landscape, mimicking the natural highways provided by ephemeral washes (Lovich  Daniels 2000).;Although the study by Lovich and Daniels (2000) suggested that G. agassizii was more adaptable to anthropogenic features in the landscape than expected, the authors noted that neutral or positive effects for one species are not necessarily shared by others at the site, including birds like the Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos (Lovich 2015a). In addition, some 20 years on, it appears that the potentially harmonious association reported between tortoise burrows, roads and turbine foundations at the site were short lived. The subsequent accumulation of thousands of tortoise captures and recaptures (including burrow locations) now suggests that tortoises generally avoid the areas of greatest turbine and road concentration at the site (Lovich 2015b), for reasons that are as yet unknown.;From 1997 to 2000, the research emphasis turned to reproductive ecology, specifically an examination of clutch size, clutch frequency, egg size and the proportion of reproductive females in a given year. Comparisons were made with populations in protected natural habitats at nearby Joshua Tree National Park and the more distant Mojave National Preserve (Lovich et al. 1999). Contrary to expectations, tortoises in the wind farm area appeared more fecund by most measures of reproductive output, thought to be driven by the reliable delivery of winter rain and its resulting effect on germination of annual food plants (Lovich et al. 2015).;A second phase from 2009 to 2013 investigated more aspects of the ecology of tortoises in the wind farm compared to populations in more natural habitats and confirmed the importance of interannual variations in temperature (Agha et al. 2015a) and precipitation (Ennen et al. 2012b) on the behaviour and clutch phenology (Lovich et al. 2012) of tortoises. Nesting behaviour did not differ appreciably from that of populations living outside wind farms (Ennen et al. 2012a Lovich et al. 2014b). Nest sites were mostly found inside tortoise burrows but there was no evidence that nests were located in proximity to anthropogenic features of the wind farm