During the construction phase, the main pollutant of concern is suspended solids produced by runoff of rainfall from areas disturbed by construction works (Pitt et al. 2006), forestry clearance operations (Rodgers et al. 2010) or instream works associated with the installation of bridges or cable crossings of watercourses. The possibility of erosion and source of sediment to the aquatic environment arises from the removal of vegetation and tree cover and the excavation of subsoil material. Runoff can cause unconsolidated fine particles to be eroded from the surfaces of spoil heaps, excavated surfaces and the side slopes of access roads beforethe reestablishment of vegetation cover, or from the surfaces of access roads and hardstanding areas, including into the operational phase. During the period immediately following the completion of construction of a wind farm on peatland in Scotland, suspended sediment concentrations were found to be markedly elevated in disturbed streams, with maximum concentrations in flow events four to five times greater than in the controls (Grieve  Gilvear 2008).;Suspended solids can have a number of negative impacts on aquatic organisms and their habitats (Newcombe  Jensen 1996 Chapman et al. 2014). Sedimentation of rivers or lakes can detrimentally affect eggs, juvenile and adult fish by inhibiting growth, development, movement or migration, and also alters food resources (Birtwell 1999). For example, suspended solids can abrade or clog the gills of fish (Herbert  Merkens 1961 Crisp 2000). After dropping out of suspension, material may settle on spawning gravels of fish such as salmonids, where it infills the interstitial spaces and smothers the ova and alevins (Turnpenny  Williams 1980). Physiological stress and reduced survival rates may also result from alterations to salmonid physiology, behaviour and habitat (Bash et al. 2001 Williams  OKeeffe 2007). Overall, the spawning, growth and reproduction of salmonids may be negatively affected (Cowx et al. 1998 Shackle et al. 1999). Furthermore, settled sediments can also smother and displace aquatic macroinvertebrates (Wood  Armitage 1997 Harrison et al. 2007), especially filter feeders (see Box 5.1), leading to severe population declines or local extinctions (Newcombe  MacDonald 1991). This can reduce the amount of food items available to fish, whose ability to find food items may already be impaired by a reduction in water clarity and visibility from suspended sediments. Increased levels of sediment generated from construction sites can even displace fish from their optimal habitat into less suitable areas (Chilibeck et al. 1992). Suspended sediment reduces the amount of light penetration into the water column and hence reduces the energy available for aquatic plant photosynthesis (Fredriksen 1972). A reduction in algae results in a major loss of food for invertebrates (Sorenson et al. 1977). Once in a watercourse, deposited silt may be suspended again during floods and affect aquatic habitats a considerable distance downstream (Denic et al. 2010).;Activities associated with wind farm construction, such as clear felling of trees, can also increase the export of organic matter and nutrients to nearby watercourses (Hope et al. 1994). These inputs can all have a dramatic effect on the aquatic ecology of streams,