The aim of this chapter was to build a conceptual model to describe the physical processes that allow wind farms to create their own microclimates. However, a systematic survey of the available published literature revealed that in situ wind farm measurements of microclimate have been made at only one location a central Iowa wind farm (Rajewski et al. 2013 2014). Other relevant studies include a few ontheground studies conducted in the near vicinity of wind farms, involving wind and temperature measurements in the prevailing upwind and downwind directions relative to the wind farm being studied. In most of these studies key factors affecting the wind farm microclimate were not reported. Examples include whether turbines were operating at full power, zero power or something between, and whether agricultural or other landuse operations such as grazing, irrigation and vegetation management activities that potentially would impact temperature, moisture or CO2 changes were being conducted during the measurement period. A second category of wind farm climate studies includes analyses of satellite images taken at specific times of day that provide a snapshot of surface radiating temperature conditions from areas covered by wind farms. A third type of study that has relevance to wind farm microclimate conditions is modelling of wind farms through the use of numerical models and wind tunnels. Thesestudies provide important insight into physical processes within wind farms that are introduced or modified by turbines. They also serve as a guide for where to make in situ measurements. Also among the numerical modelling studies are simulations of how wind farms may affect regions outside wind farm boundaries and even on a global scale. Unfortunately, no studies are yet available that report the measurement of ecosystem function or structure, such as the rate of photosynthesis, biomass accumulation or species composition. Rajewski et al. (2013) provide the only available in situ simultaneous measurements inside and outside wind farms of carbon exchanges between the atmosphere and the vegetated surfaces, but even these studies do not include the important contribution of soil processes within wind farms.;The relevant thermodynamic and aerodynamic processes that turbines will influence are described within the themes in the next section, and past research on agricultural shelterbelts is used to build a conceptual model for forming questions on the effects of wind turbines. Satellite observations of temperature impacts and measurements of microclimate changes due to wind farms will be summarised. These measurements provide a point of departure for developing models of changes to natural processes in the near vicinity of turbines, as well as regional, subcontinental and global scale models on the impacts of wind farms.;Ecosystem functions are driven by the rates of exchange of radiant energy (solar and infrared radiation), thermal energy (sensible heat), water (vapour, liquid, solid), trace gases (principally CO2) and the influence of wind on plant movement. Figure 2.1 shows the basic exchanges of energy and trace gases at the surface, simplified by considering only lowgrowing grassy vegetation.