As a bluff body, an operating turbine represents an obstacle to the flow, which creates regions of high and low pressure within thewind farm that influence winds and surface fluxes. A steady wind establishes a static (standing) pressure wave with its maximum immediately upwind and minimum immediately downwind of a turbine. Motions of the blades through a sheared wind profile and past a stationary turbine pedestal create fluctuations superimposed on this standing pressure wave that create a pumping action across the soil surface (Takle et al. 2004), leading to enhanced soil respiration and drying, with consequences for soil ecosystems.;Utilityscale wind farms are not fully operational at rated capacity at all times. At wind speeds below about 4 metres per second, a typical cutin speed, turbines do not operate at all. From cutin speed to rated speed, typically about 12 metres per second, turbines operate with blades pitched to have maximum cross section to the wind to increase the wind energy captured. Above rated speed, turbine pitch is reduced to keep the power generated at the rated value. Wind farms typically operate at 3040 of nameplate capacity over the course of a year.;Curtailment of all or parts of a wind farm occurs as a result of electric grid requirements, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, transmission line upgrades and severe storms in the vicinity. Ambient wind speeds can also fall below turbine cutin values over all or portions of the wind farm. Without knowledge of these factors it is not possible to determine with certainty the proportion of any microclimate changes that can be attributed to turbinegenerated changes as opposed to terrain effects, land use such as grazing, irrigation, cropping types or patterns, or variations in soil types or soil moisture.;The conceptual model of wind turbine wakes and their modification of natural turbulent processes to create their own microclimates leads to speculation on how wind farms may influence normal ecosystem function and structure. Simply put, vegetation within a wind farm will experience a decreased mean wind speed and increased turbulence, which influences the rates of exchange of heat, water and, by extension, CO2 from the surface (Figure 2.2).;Figure 2.2 Conceptual model of turbinecrop interaction via mean wind and turbulence fields. The wake of a wind turbine consists of a cone of