(Chapter 7) suggests there are many casual observations of flocks of migrating birds apparently responding to the presence of wind farms by becoming disorganised and ultimately avoiding them. In practice, it is challenging to conclusively demonstrate that a barrier effect actually exists and that any apparent deviation does not relate to another cue that is not obvious to the observer.;Interpretation of any form of displacement including a barrier effect is greatly aided by before and after studies, which appear to be rather rare in relation to onshore wind farms, with perhaps as many in the marine environment (e.g. Plonczkier  Simms 2012, Harwood et al. in press), which is perhaps surprising given the technical challenges working at sea and the small number of offshore sites. In the ongoing study by Harwood et al. (in press), early indications were that breeding Sandwich Terns Thalasseus sandvicensis were more reluctant to cross the operational site than when it was under construction or before construction began (Figure 11.3). Flight lines of birds that did cross the site were orientated in corridors between turbines. A good example for an onshore site is the study of Johnston et al. (2014), who visually tracked Golden Eagles on migration over three years (one before and two after construction). Birds increased flight altitude in the presence of the built wind farm and significantly decreased their proportion of flights in the risk zone, although this was never zero. An alternative approach to beforeafter studies is to estimate the null position using simulation modelling, as undertaken by Villegas Patraca et al. (2014) in relation to soaring raptors in the isthmus of Tehuantepec in southern Mexico. Here, strong avoidance was manifested as a nonrandom distribution of flight trajectories in autumn, although the pattern was less clear in spring. Local topography in the form of the particular orientation of a local ridgeline guiding birds away from the site in southbound autumn migration appeared to be influential.