While the late summerautumn peak in fatalities among bats may in part be explained by the increase in the number of bats passing through wind farms, a continuing mystery is why there is no similar peak in spring as the same bats migrate to their summer grounds. Possible explanations include that migratory routes are more dispersed in spring than in autumn, or are in areas not occupied by wind farms, or that bats fly at greater heights, above the turbines, in spring, perhaps to take advantage of favourable prevailing winds. However, so far there had been no convincingexplanation for this discrepancy, except that migration may not be as important to fatalities as previously believed (e.g. Kunz et al. 2007), and that other explanations, such as the onset of the mating season in autumn (Cryan 2008) or changes in aerial insect distribution (e.g. Rydell et al. 2010b), are more important.;Even during periods of peak fatalities, rates vary from night to night (e.g. Kunz et al. 2007 Horn et al. 2008 Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Amorim et al. 2012). This variation is correlated with several environmental variables, such as ambient temperature, wind speed and direction, precipitation, moonlight and barometric pressure (e.g. Rydell et al. 2010a Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Jain et al. 2011 Amorim et al. 2012). The most consistent correlate with variation in nightly fatality rates is wind speed most bats are killed when the wind speed is relatively low (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008 Horn et al. 2008 Baerwald  Barclay 2011). This relationship has allowed the development of operational changes to turbines that reduce fatality rates (Baerwald et al. 2009 Arnett et al. 2011) (see Chapter 18 in this volume).;Temperature also influences bat activity and therefore fatality rates. As most of the species of bats reported to have been killed at wind turbines are insectivorous, and the abundance of flying insects declines with declining temperature (e.g. Taylor 1963), it is not surprising that fatality rates also decline (e.g. Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Amorim et al. 2012 Grodsky et al. 2012). Indeed, the decline in fatalities with both increased wind speed and lower temperature has been hypothesised to be related to changes in insect abundance and thus feeding behaviour of bats (Rydell et al. 2010b).;Fatality rates of bats vary considerably among wind farms, but may also vary among turbines within farms. A considerable amount of the variation among sites is related to the number of species and their abundance in the local area. Although there is a relationship between bat activity (the number of bats detected per night) and fatality rate (Arnett et al. 2008 Baerwald  Barclay 2011 Jain et al. 2011 Amorim et al. 2012), there is considerable variation in it. In Alberta, Canada, high fatality rates occurred close to the Rocky Mountains where the activity of migratory bats in late summer was also high. Activity and fatality rates were much lower at facilities away from the mountains (Baerwald  Barclay 2009). In Texas and Oklahoma, USA, fatality rates of Mexican Freetailed bats were high, and in both cases the proximity of the wind farms to large maternity colonies in caves was suggested to be the causal factor