Using data from published studies and unpublished reports, this chapter summarises what is known regarding the effects of wind turbines on bats, assesses hypotheses as to why bats are killed, and suggests where critical gaps in our understanding exist. Although there may be nonlethal effects of wind turbines on bats, such as loss of roosting or foraging habitat, there are few data regarding these potential impacts. On the other hand, based on numerous studies at individual wind farms and the current total global wind energy production, it is estimated that millions of bats are killed at wind turbines globally each year. Although data are almost exclusively from North America and Europe, rather than where bat diversity is its highest andor wind energy is most prevalent, more recent research has helped to elucidate the causes of bat fatalities. Fatalities occur because of direct impact by moving turbine blades, and from internal injuries caused when bats fly through zones of low air pressure along turbine blades. Although there is considerable variation in the species composition of fatalities across wind farms, the majority of bats killed belongs to species that fly high in open spaces, including migratory and nonmigratory species. Fatalities peak in late summer or autumn and in conditions of low wind and warm temperatures. These patterns may be driven by changes in the abundance of bats flying in the zone of risk (the bladeswept area) because of changes in behaviour such as during autumn migration and changes in feeding areas, but also by attraction of bats to wind farms or turbines as the bats search for resources including roosts, mates and prey. Future research must assess the populationlevel consequences of bat fatalities and consider cumulative effects of wind farms on both local and migrantpopulations.;All forms of energy use by humans involve environmental impacts of one form or another, and harnessing the wind is no exception. As outlined in this book and elsewhere, the environmental impacts of wind energy facilities (wind farms) come in many forms, from influencing the weather (e.g. Keith et al. 2004 Roy  Traiteur 2010) to causing habitat alteration, fragmentation and loss (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Zimmerling et al. 2013), and directly causing fatalities of flying animals, including birds (Loss et al. 2013 Smallwood 2013) and bats (Kunz et al. 2007 Rydell et al. 2010a). From the outset, the impacts of wind farms on wildlife have focused primarily on birds (e.g. Howell  DiDonato 1991). Although there were early reports of bat fatalities at wind turbines (Hall  Richards 1972 Johnson et al. 2003), such fatalities were relatively rare and were overshadowed by greater numbers of bird fatalities and by those fatalities involving more conspicuous, charismatic species such as raptors (Smallwood 2013). In North America, it was only when reports emerged in 2003 of thousands of bat fatalities at a wind facility in West Virginia (Kerns  Kerlinger 2004) that scientists, the wind energy industry, governments and the public took notice. Even now, despite the fact that estimates of bat fatalities exceed those of birds at North American and European wind farms, the focus usually remains on birds. The reasons for this are probably many, including that birds are a more obvious part of both natural and humanaltered environments, and that ornithologists always outnumber bat enthusiasts.;There are several reasons why the impact of wind farms on bats should be of concern. First, the estimated number of bat fatalities is considerable, ranging from 196,000 to 880,000 per year in North America (Arnett  Baerwald 2013 Hayes 2013 Smallwood 2013), and over 300,000 per year in Germany alone (Voigt et al. 2012 Lehnert et al. 2014).;Secondly, fatalities of bats are concentrated on relatively few species, thus potentially having significant impacts on their populations. For example, three species make up almost 80 of fatalities in North America, including Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus (Figure 9.1), and four species make up over 60 of fatalities in Europe (Table 9.1). In addition, migratory bats make up a large proportion of fatalities (Table 9.1), and bats killed at individual