In the APWRA, the two variables most strongly associated with mortality were the position of the turbine in the row, with the most dangerous turbines being on the end of the row, and the orography, with the most dangerous turbines in close proximity to the canyons (Orloff  Flannery 1992 Hunt 1999). Importantly, these variablescombine to produce a synergistic effect on mortality. Moreover, according to Smallwood and Thelander (2004), more isolated turbines killed disproportionately more birds, with the wind wall configuration, wind turbines in dense clusters and those in the interior of wind turbine strings all being safer for birds. The simulation model study of Schaub (2012) attempted to determine the effect of different numbers of turbines as well as their spatial configuration upon a Red Kite population. The larger the number of wind turbines and the more they were spread out in the landscape, the more depressed the population growth rate became. This effect could be reduced if wind turbines were aggregated. Such patterns are not evident in all situations, however. For example, Krijgsveld et al. (2009) analysed collision rates in three wind farms with two different configurations of turbines, one clustered and the other as a line of turbines, but they did not detect any differences between them.;The illumination of human structures such as lighthouses or towers is known to attract or disorientate nocturnal migrant passerine songbirds, especially during bad weather situations, and may lead to bird mortality events (Cochran 1958 Avery et al. 1976 Kerlinger  Kerns 2003). Kerlinger et al. (2010) went on to analyse bird collision with turbines and towers and how it was related to the need to light potential obstructions to aircraft in North America. Different types of lights were compared, and although there were no significant differences between them, no mortality events were recorded at turbines equipped with flashing red lights. Similar results were obtained by Gehring et al. (2011) in relation to communication towers. Not all turbines in a wind farm have to be equipped with warning lights Agencia Estatal de Seguridad Area (AESA) 2010, but where illumination is required then flashing red lights would seem to be the best option to reduce collisions by nightflying birds.;One of the most important factors in bird collision is the topography of the area where the wind farm is installed (Orloff  Flannery 1992 Strickland et al. 1998 Barrios  Rodrguez 2004 Smallwood  Neher 2004 de Lucas et al. 2008). In the mountainous APWRA, Golden Eagles were more susceptible to collision with turbines in canyons, and raptor mortality in general had a relationship with