To ensure the independence of the data and to avoid analysingthe same study more than once, data from each wind farm were treated as a single study, even if the data were gathered in different years and by different observers. Most of the studies covered several species. Often, several parameters were analysed for each species. For compilation in this chapter, only one parameter per study was used, preferably the results of a beforeandafter construction comparison. If these data were not available, data on bird densities in different distances to wind farms were used. The division of species and studies and the distinction between breeding season and nonbreeding season led to a data matrix with 1,376 data sets (data split between different species within the same study), which forms the basis for Tables 7.1, 7.2 and 7.47.7. Altogether, 306 species were covered by at least one analysis.;To test for the existence of wind farm effects, the numbers of negative and positive studies were counted for each species. The distributions of observed negative and positive effects were tested by nonparametric binomial tests against the null hypothesis that there is no difference in the probability of wind farms generating positive or negative effects. These tests were undertaken to try to establish general trends for a species or a group, and they should not diminish a strong effect for a species at a particular site. Tests were performed on the level of species, taxonomic groups and ecological guilds. It is assumed that birds that are relatively tied to their breeding areas react differently to wind turbines from those that only pass through areas outside the breeding season, when they are less tied to a single area and lack local knowledge. Therefore, a distinction was made between studies carried out during and outside the breeding season (with this definition varying depending on the species concerned). All statistical analyses were performed using R 3.0.2 (R Development Core Team 2009).;Displacement of birds from onshore wind farms has been suggested for many species. The data available for evaluation (Table 7.1) is clearly biased towards bird species occurring in open landscapes and raptors because most wind farms are situated in open landscapes, with raptors receiving more attention as a result of their high collision rates (see Chapter 8 in this volume). Birds living in other habitats, such as woodland birds, have been studied less frequently, although there is an increasing trend towards planning