As suggested for bird fatalities at wind turbines (Marques et al. 2014), the diversity of species, age and sex ratios of dead bats, and habitats involved suggests that one causal factor is unlikely to explain all bat fatalities at all locations. More probably, different factors or different combinations of factors, including changes in prey abundance and distribution, bats mistaking turbines for trees and seasonal changes in behaviour, will explain fatalities and their temporal occurrence in different locations.;Recognition that the impacts of wind farms on bats may be an issue is relatively new and there are significant questions still to be answered. However, given that research on the phenomenon is little more than a decade old, we have come a long way towards understanding the direct causes of bat fatalities. What is lacking is an understanding of the indirect consequences (e.g. habitat loss and fragmentation) on bat populations, and the consequences of fatalities on the stability of local and migratory bat populations. Some key future research directions are briefly outlined in the following paragraphs.;Aside from helping to understand the basic biology behind bat fatalities, understanding the variation in fatality rates and why bats are in the bladeswept area of turbines may provide insight into how to reduce the impact of wind energy. Attraction hypotheses are difficult to test, but more attention to specific predictions is important. Further observations of bats (including feeding behaviours) and their prey, using a combination of radar, acoustic and thermal imaging, may be instructive, but only if observations at turbines are compared to the behaviours of bats and insects away from turbines.;Of vital importance is to assess the longterm consequences of fatalities on local and migratory bat populations. It is likely that data exist to determine whether populations are stable, but modelling populations will also be useful. For this, cumulative effects must be considered, rather than the wind farm by wind farm approach that has been the focus to date. The cumulative impact