For nonraptors, Everaert (2014) suggested a significant impact at a regionalnational level in the breeding colony of terns as a result of the increase in additional mortality (1.42.0) through collision at Zeebrugge wind farms. Using the population simulation model VORTEX on eight bird species (passerines, raptors and waders) and employing data from the literature, Htker et al. (2006) detected a high variation in the impact on population development of additional mortality due to wind farms. However, even with relatively small increases in mortality, decreasing trends were clearly recognisable for all species. A collision of an individual of a longlived species resulted in a larger increase in the overallmortality rate and therefore had a relatively stronger impact on the population than the collision of an individual of a shortlived species, such as a species of songbird.;However, Erickson et al. (2014), focusing on the mortality rates of small passerines, concluded that effects on different species could not be generalised as fatality rates varied considerably, from 0.001 to 0.043. Nevertheless, some species of conservation concern were identified as fatalities. In a different study, Zimmerling et al. (2013) estimated similar levels of mortality, suggesting that less than 0.2 of the population of any species was affected by mortality or displacement from wind turbine development. Therefore, populationlevel impacts were unlikely, provided that highly sensitive or rare habitats, as well as population centres for species at risk, were avoided.;As wind farms proliferate around the world, migrating species could cross several areas of development along their flyways between breeding and wintering areas. These create greater pressures on the environment, making the assessment of cumulative impacts a pressing issue (Masden et al. 2009).;There have been considerable advances in the knowledge of bird mortality at wind farms, largely as a result of the engagement of the scientific community in trying to tackle the issue. International, national and regional conferences and meetings have taken place to enable effective knowledge exchange. Increasing numbers of scientific papers have been produced, including those attempting to review a number of wind farms across a region or country and seeking to identify underlying trends or themes through meta analyses. The challenge now is to maintain that initiative and continue to share information through scientific congresses and meetings and published papers and reports, bringing in new information from studies in areas where new wind farms are being constructed or planned, such as Asia (e.g. China and Japan), South America (e.g. Brazil) and Africa. As more studies are conducted and their results made available, they will help to refine the overall understanding, which will help to improve our ability to make decisions about effects, turbine siting, and possible avoidance and mitigation strategies.