The EIA Directive (EU 2014) requires an assessment to be carried out by the competent national authority in each member state for certain projects, which may have a physical effect on the environment. The purpose of the EIA is to aid the decisionmaking process by providing the competent authority with a full account of the likely significant environmental effects. The directive specifies the need to consider direct and indirect impacts of a positive or negative nature on thefollowing receptors human beings, fauna and flora, soil, water, air, climate and the landscape, material assets and cultural heritage, and the interaction between these receptors. Furthermore, it requires consideration of potential cumulative and transboundary impacts between member states. This is a key directive for European developers as wind farms require mandatory EIA.;The SEA Directive (EU 2001c) seeks to provide a high level of protection of the environment by integrating environmental considerations into the process of preparing certain plans and programmes. The aim of the Directive is to contribute to the integration of environmental considerations into the preparation and adoption of plans and programmes by requiring that an environmental assessment is carried out of certain plans and programmes which are likely to have significant effects on the environment. The key difference between EIA and SEA is geographic scale whereas EIA is undertaken at the project level, SEA requires consideration of the potential environmental impacts associated with a plan or programme of projects. As a result, the SEA must be prepared or adopted by an authority (at national, regional or local level) rather than a developer.;European nature conservation policy is based on two main pieces of legislation the Birds Directive (EU 2009b) and the Habitats Directive (EU 1992). The later focuses on the protection of wild species and their habitats. Each member state is required to identify sites of European importance termed Special Areas of Conservation (SACs), and to put in place management plans where necessary. Under the former, member states are required to classify Special Protection Areas (SPAs), which are similar to SACs and may overlap at times.;The Habitats and Birds Directives are particularly pertinent to European wind farm developers as they are required to carry out a Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA) (EU 2001a) where a plan or project (in this case a wind farm proposal) is likely to have a significant effect upon a European site, either individually or in combination with other projects. This is in addition to the EIA.