Wind farms may directly or indirectly change the abundance of predators with possible topdown or bottomup effects cascading to other trophic levels. Wind farms may induce topdown trophic cascades by reducing predator abundance via collisions or avoidance, or increasing predator numbers through attraction. Populations of insectivorous bats may be reduced at wind farms as a result of changes in pressure around turbine blades (e.g. Cryan  Barclay 2009) (see Chapter 9 in this volume), and birds may avoid wind farms (PearceHiggins et al. 2009) (see Chapter 8 in this volume). Some birds, including Sage Grouse Centrocercus urophasianus and Lesser Greater Prairie Chickens Tympanuchus pallidicinctus and T. cupido avoid wind farms (Pruett et al. 2009a 2009b Naugle et al. 2011) such that the abundance of these birds is reduced near wind farms. PearceHiggins et al. (2009) studied birds at 12 wind farms in the UK and discovered that abundance decreased by 1553 for some species, including Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus, European Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria and Eurasian Curlew Numenius arquata. In these cases, reducing the numbers of vertebrate or invertebrate predators may lead to increased biomass of their invertebrate prey. Conversely, some animals may be attracted to wind farms because the turbines provide structure or because they are following local accumulations of their prey. For example, bats may be attracted to wind farms to feed on moths (Rydell et al. 2010). The increased abundance of predatory bats atwind farms may reduce the biomass of their invertebrate prey.;Increases in precipitation, temperature and evaporation that occur downwind of wind farms (see Microclimate, above) have the potential to alter vegetation. These microclimate changes may alter the food web through bottomup effects. Changes in the structure or diversity of vegetation can lead to trophic cascades that affect invertebrates and their predators (Kagata  Ohgushi 2005). For example, Knops et al. (1999) experimentally reduced the richness of plant species in grassland and found decreased species richness of herbivorous and predaceous insects. The authors are not aware of any studies that have investigated these potential food web effects in wind farms.;Invertebrates are keystone members of terrestrial communities therefore, changes in invertebrate populations can have profound effects on multiple trophic levels. Some of the key factors associated with wind farm development that could impact invertebrate populations are outlined in this chapter. These effects have largely been discussed in isolation to highlight a host of key areas for future research, but future work should also investigate these effects in combination. An initial investigation of insects at wind farms (Box 4.1) suggests that wind speed may be important in determining patterns of insect abundance along a transect from upwind to downwind of a turbine, and as such, is a prime area for future work. Given the rapid pace of wind energy development and the dearth of knowledge about its impacts on terrestrial invertebrates, new work is urgently needed. Studies investigating these knowledge gaps will not only greatly advance our understanding of wind farm impacts, but also address fundamental questions in ecology, including the effects of habitat loss and fragmentation on populations and communities and the importance of trophic cascades in structuring communities after disturbance. In the context of minimising the potential impacts of wind farm development on invertebrates, future work could target a number of interesting research questions