Silva  Passos, Chapter 3, Box 3.2). In addition, Waldron et al. (2009) showed that carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations increased in the waters draining peatland subject to wind farm construction and associated forest clearance. Export increased in a manner that would support aquatic respiration that, in turn, could favour CO2 efflux affecting both the aquatic and gaseous carbon cycle. In other words, the strength of the carbon sink in peatlands could be affected. Using a carbon calculator, Smith et al. (2012) subsequently demonstrated that wind farms built on nondegraded peatlands rather than those erected on other peat sites or mineral soils may not ultimately show the intended carbon savings.;Changes in hydrology, the chemistry underpinning biological processes, and the input of sediments are likely to deleteriously alter the entire foodweb of receiving streams and thus impact on invertebrate communities and fish populations for some distance downstream (OConnor, Chapter 5). Inadequate planning and preparation has even led to dramatic physical changes such as major landslides (bog bursts) with consequences (OConnor, Chapter 5). For these reasons, Scottish Renewables et al. (2015) has worked closely with industry to produce a goodpractice guide for a range of Scottish habitats where wind farms may be installed, including peatlands, bog, wet heath, dry heath, grassland and woodland.;No published studies appear to have fully documented the effects of the loss of original habitat upon flora and fauna, although it is easy to see that species with specific requirements for habitats that are themselves restricted could be readily affected. For this reason, important habitats for wildlife native to the area should be avoided. In the case of mammals, this may be highquality grazing areas, undisturbed denning sites and migration routes (Helldin et al., Chapter 10). For bats, avoidance of roosts including maternity sites and hibernacula is critical (Barclay et al., Chapter 9). Similarly for birds, known migration routes for vulnerable soaring species (Lucas  Perrow, Chapter 8), breeding sites or colonies of species of conservation importance, and particularly important habitats such as wetlands and lowintensity grassland and prairie are also best avoided. Leaving colonies of insects that are associated with particular foodplants in the case of butterflies for example, or particular microhabitats, is also good conservation practice. Otherwise, anything that is unable to fly or run away, which typically covers, plants, insects and herpetofauna, may fall under the wheels of construction. Reptiles and amphibians are particularly