In fact, few studies of avoidance have lasted long enough to be able to detect any influence of habituation. Madsen and Boertmann (2008) showed that springstaging Pinkfooted Geese reduced avoidance distances from approximately 200 m to 100 m, from more than 100 m to 40 m and from 125 m to 50 m in three wind farms in Denmark over periods of 810 years. A compilation of earlier studies, lasting for at least two years, provided little evidence for habituation. Birds did not show a general tendency to reducetheir avoidance distances over time after the wind farms had been constructed. This held true for both the breeding and the non breeding season (Htker et al. 2005). Stewart et al. (2007) found that greater declines in abundance occurred at wind farms that had been operating for longer. PearceHiggins et al. (2012) showed that densities of Red Grouse, Eurasian Curlew and Common Snipe declined during the construction phase of wind farms, but only Red Grouse densities recovered in later years, tentatively suggesting habituation of individuals.;In theory, the chance of collisions with rotor blades or towers should be reduced if birds avoid close proximity to wind turbines (Johnson et al. 2000). Therefore, displacement and high collision rates should be mutually exclusive. Indeed, neither of the groups of species showing the highest degree of avoidance of wind farms (geese and swans) is at high risk of collision. Conversely, groups of species showing little avoidance of wind farms, such as raptors, terns and gulls, are often at the top of the lists of collision victims (Drewitt  Langston 2008). An analysis of the number of collision victims and the degree of displacement shown by different groups of birds within a longrunning (20 years) German data set reinforced the view that those groups of birds suffering from displacement did not suffer from high collision rates (Box 7.2). Moreover, collision rates were affected not only by the degree of avoidance of wind farms, but also by flight mode, as high collision rates occurred among birds that fly and soar frequently.;Avoiding being close to wind farms should, theoretically, reduce the risk of collision for birds. Here, the relationship between avoidance rate and collision risk is examined for a data set from Germany. The percentage of studies showing displacement for a group of species (Tables 7.2, 7.4 and 7.5) was used an index of avoidance rate in this context. The equivalent risk of collision has not been measured for many species. However, in Germany, the Staatliche Vogelschutzwarte Brandenburg has been keeping track of reported collision victims in Germany for about 20 years (Drr 2004 Rasran 