Many birds change flight patterns at different times of year, withnocturnally migrating passerines increasing flight height far above the height of turbines (Alerstam 1990). The exception may be when birds are brought to lower heights by poor weather such as rain. Over time therefore, a considerable range of bird species, varying considerably in size, body form and flight patterns, are likely to be recorded as collision victims. To illustrate, the German collision register to December 2014 recorded 126 species and nine species groups (Htker  Drr, Chapter 8, Box 8.1), comparable with the 140 species recorded in Canada by Zimmerling et al. (2013). Nevertheless, the collision record tends to be dominated by large species, typically a few species of common raptors (see Htker  Drr, Chapter 8, Box 8.1). This may be partly a function of the fact that the corpses of large species better resist degradation by weather and the attentions of predators and thus are more readily recovered and recorded. Finding smaller birds and bats requires considerably more effort and careful sampling design (Huso et al., Volume 2, Chapter 4).;For birds, vulnerability to collision also has much to do with the degree of risk aversion to wind farms and turbines, with naturally wary species such as waterfowl recording little or no collision, especially compared to fearless raptors with higher rates of collision but with limited displacement (see above and Htker, Chapter 7). The degree of riskaversion may also be modified by the season and reproductive status, with breeding birds actively defending territories or provisioning chicks taking less care near turbines. The residents or seasonal breeders amongst vulnerable groups may therefore be the ones that collide. For example, at the large number of wind farms in the Tarifa area of southern Spain, where up to 50 million birds pass through on their annual migration from Europe to Africa (and vice versa), it is Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus, a resident and partly migratory species occurring in relatively low numbers, that is the principal collision victim. Three other breeding raptors  Booted Eagle Aquila pennata, Common Kestrel Falco tinnunculus (Figure 11.9) and Montagus Harrier Circus pygargus  also have some of the highest collision rates relative to the number of breeding pairs in the study area (Martin et al., Chapter 8, Box 8.2).;Researchers often comment on the apparent disregard of raptors to moving blades (e.g. Smallwood et al. 2009 Dahl et al. 2013), which is also clear from posts on YouTube involving vultures (e.g. Ceric 2009). As well as flying at the wrong height at the wrong time, the visual system of raptors may also contribute to their apparently low aversion to risk. In more detail, Martin et al. (2012) showed scavenging Gyps vultures have a small binocular region and