Fatalities are not simply a random sample of the bats in a region. To understand the potential population and ecological implications of these fatalities, and to inform actions to reduce the impact of wind energy on bats, we need to understand the variation in fatality rates across many scales. Estimated fatality rates of bats at wind farms vary in many ways. The most obvious of these is variation among wind farms, with some recorded estimates being less than 1 bat per turbine per year and others being more than 50 bats per turbine per year (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008 AVES 2010 Rydell et al. 2012). However, fatality rates vary in general within and among wind farms, and within and among species of bats. Despite this, and thefact that at least 73 species of bats have been recorded as killed at turbines, across a wide range of habitats, latitudes and elevations, some consistent patterns emerge (Table 9.1).;It is clear that the bats killed at a particular wind farm, or in a broader region, do not represent a random sample from the area. For example, in North America, the Little Brown Bat Myotis lucifugus, one of the most common species on the continent (at least until the fungal disease whitenose syndrome killed millions of individuals) (Frick et al. 2010), makes up a relatively small proportion of fatalities (7) (Arnett  Baerwald 2013). Instead, three less commonly encountered species of treeroosting, migratory bats  Hoary Bat (38), Eastern Red Bat (22) and Silverhaired Bat (18)  make up 78 of fatalities across the continent (Figure 9.1), and are consistently killed at the majority of wind farms (Table 9.1) (Arnett  Baerwald 2013). In the southern USA, the Mexican Freetailed Bat dominates fatalities (Miller 2008 Piorkowski  OConnell 2010). There are also a number of species that have never been recorded as having been killed e.g. Townsends Bigeared Bat Corynorhinus (Plecotus) townsendii, Pallid Bat Antrozous pallidus and several Myotis species, and others that represent less than 0.01 of all fatalities, such as other species of Myotis (Table 9.1) (Arnett  Baerwald 2013). A similar pattern occurs in Europe (Rydell et al. 2010a).;Figure 9.3 Nathusius Pipistrelle Pipistrellus nathusii, one of the most commonly killed bats at wind farms in continental Europe. (Jens Rydell)