Cumulative effects are an important issue with regard to the assessment of impacts on vegetation. Individually, a wind farm, or indeed any activity or action, may have minor effects on theenvironment, but collectively these may be significant, potentially greater than the sum of the individual parts acting alone (Masden 2011). Hyder (1999) defined cumulative effects as those that result from incremental changes caused by other past, present or reasonably foreseeable actions together with the project, especially in local or regional areas where multiple wind farms are built over time.;This issue is addressed in some EIA studies with a comprehensive analysis of existing projects, such as wind farms and other projects, in the surrounding area and a general assessment of resulting effects. Actually, according to the review conducted, almost 50 of documents analysed make this assessment, although none makes direct reference to cumulative effects on flora and vegetation. A meaningful cumulative assessment is difficult to achieve given the lack of information about existing projects on the surroundings.;Incombination effects are another important issue. Although potential negative effects tend to be analysed in isolation, what is observed in reality is the combination of different effects operating at a site added together and coupled with the prospect of different effects from entirely different anthropogenic practices (e.g. clearance for agriculture, grazing by livestock) being added to a wind farm (Hyder 1999). For example, the effect of degradation can be added to the proliferation of invasive species and the destruction of different populations of an endemic or a rare species.;Impacts on vegetation are rarely the main issue in EIA. An obvious hindrance to the rigorous impact assessment is the general lack of basic information about the natural assets, even in protected areas. Outside these territories the existing knowledge base is even smaller, so when an EIA is conducted there is very little information about the area that is being studied. The lack of information on existing habitats could easily lead to superficial EIAs on the effects of the wind farm on vegetation. Although a full treatment was beyond the scope of this chapter, the objective was to review and document what are thought to be the more important effects and impacts. To achieve these goals, 36 EIA studies, conducted in 14 different countries from all around the world, were consulted. The review suggested that the EIA tends to raise a number of potentially important effects that could lead to impacts. A summary of the