Previous chapters in this volume outline the effects upon wildlife at a range of trophic levels from flora to invertebrates, fish, amphibians and reptiles, terrestrial mammals, bats and birds. This chapter aims to provide a unifying synthesis of the effects and impacts described, whilst also incorporating information from recent studies and grey literature. The collision of birds and bats and the displacement of birds have been widely studied, particularly in Europe and North America. Unfortunately, no peer reviewed studies are available from China and India, amongst the worlds major producers of wind energy. Displacement has been demonstrated for riskaverse bird species, although the mechanisms behind disturbance typically remain unclear. For some large mammals, increased human presence may be important. The consequences of displacement upon individual fitness of any species generally remain unmeasured. In contrast, a small number of longerterm intensive studies of collision mortality of raptors have demonstrated impacts upon local populations with possible consequences at larger scales. Whilst the scale of bat collisions appears considerable, judging impacts has been hampered by a lack of knowledge of population demography and dynamics. Cumulative effects upon any taxon, particularly migratory species, have barely begun to be addressed. Until further research fills knowledge gaps, the uncertainty of impacts should be embraced by avoiding conflict in the first place through careful selection of sites and turbine locations. The combination of the typical scale of habitat loss and modification during construction activity, the installation of a road network that could promote the spread of alien plants and fragmenthabitats, and changes in microclimate in the operational site invariably has ecological consequences throughout the foodweb. But, in keeping with the general dearth of studies on taxa other than birds and bats, foodweb effects have not been studied. Serious negative impacts upon groups such as invertebrates are likely to have gone undetected. More could be done through habitat restoration to make wind farms wildlife havens and achieve the ultimate goal of a winwin scenario for wind energy and wildlife.;Forty years has passed since a bird was first recorded as a collision victim at an experimental turbine (Rogers et al. 1976). Some 16 years later Orloff  Flannery (1992) first described the impact of turbines upon birds in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA), which in 1998 contained about 5,400 turbines (Smallwood  Karas 2009). From 1998 to 2003, Smallwood  Karas (2009) estimated mean annual fatality rates of 7,550 birds including 1,880 raptors. The inclusion of Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos as a frequent collision victim crystallised the potential for negative impacts of wind farms in the public psyche (Figure 11.1). The death of charismatic birds of prey at a number of wind farm sites in several countries has received a lot of attention in the press (e.g. Subramanian 2012 Gray 2013 Cramb 2014), without necessarily yielding a full treatment of the circumstances surrounding what may often be sitespecific issues. In principle, wind farms are part of the drive to curb climate change, which is widely perceived to be a key threat to many ecosystems and the wildlife they support (IPCC 2014). Although there will be winners, perhaps especially in mobile species such as birds, more losers are likely (Birdlife International  National Audubon Society 2015), with accelerated extinction risk for one in six species should the rate of current warming continue (Urban 2015). The wider positive effects of wind farms contrasting with the potential for negative effects has resulted in a green versus green debate (Warren et al. 2005). Seeking to redress the balance, Kiesecker et al. (2011) argued that sustainable development is possible and a winwin for wind power and wildlife can be attained.