There is also potential for mortality of subterranean reptiles and amphibians in wind farms. Many species spend a significant portion of their annual life cycle underground to avoid thermal extremes, to nest (Box 6.1) and to hibernate. Hibernation is often conducted atdepths of less than 33 cm (Cowles 1941). The heavy machinery used during construction, maintenance and operation of wind farms results in soil compaction, with even lightweight vehicles causing compaction in habitats with friable soils (Webb 1983), such as desert ecosystems. In such habits, subterranean reptiles and amphibians are at risk of being crushed or trapped in shallow burrows or retreats (Stebbins 1995).;In terms of potential habitat destruction, modification and fragmentation, wind has greater landuse intensity per unit output of energy (km2TWhyear) than all other forms of energy (including photovoltaic and thermal solar, hydropower, coal, natural gas and nuclear power) other than biofuel production (McDonald et al. 2009). However, unlike other energy sources, wind farms generally allow some remaining habitat within the matrix of installed turbines, roads and associated infrastructure, but whether or not that habitat is adequate to meet the needs of wildlife remains largely unknown. Surface disturbance associated with installation, particularly in desert environments, leads to changes in soil densities and composition, water infiltration, erosion patterns, microclimate and vegetation composition (Lovich  Bainbridge 1999 Lovich  Ennen 2011) that could all adversely influence reptiles and amphibians. Santos et al. (2010) suggested that herpetofaunal species richness declined after the installation of turbines, although particular species may not exhibit a negative response to wind farms in the short term (Lovich  Daniels 2000) (Box 6.1).;When wind energy is developed in forested areas along mountain ridges, as in the eastern USA (Raichle  Carson 2009), trees have to be removed from the area around each installed turbine, creating artificial canopy gaps. Reptiles and amphibians are known to respond differently to canopy gaps not linked to wind farms. Greenburg (2001) reported limited to no impact on the relative abundance of amphibians associated with canopy gaps in Appalachian forests, although there was a significant increase in the relative abundance of lizards, as well as snakes to some degree. More research is needed on the longterm effects on herpetofauna of persistent canopy gaps associated with wind energy production.