A natural extension to this concept is to deliberately undertake habitat management for conservation purposes in association with wind farm construction. Management is typically targeted at speciesof particular interest, including those that are raised by the Statutory Nature Conservation Bodies (SNCBs) or revealed by baseline surveys typically undertaken by the developers consultants. In Scotland, the submission of Habitat Management Plans to mitigate or compensate for the impacts caused by the development or enhance the natural heritage interest of the site appears to be encouraged (SNH 2016). A brief perusal of internet information reveals a number of sites in Scotland where active habitat management for conservation purposes is being pursued, with birds, butterflies and keystone vegetation such as Heather Calluna vulgaris being particular focii. Little detail is generally available, however. Dunn et al. (2015) confirm this view by noting that only relatively few sites (23 of 22) had downloadable habitat management plans. To date, very little if any information on the successes or failures of conservation management within wind farms appears to reach the peerreviewed literature which is a pity.;Finally, habitat may also become unavailable or lost to particular species as a result of disturbance, especially during construction, but also extending into operation. For flora and invertebrates, unoccupied habitat may result from the elimination of the species concerned by one means or another coupled with a failure to recolonise. This in itself may point to more complex indirect foodweb changes (see below). In the case of mobile groups such as birds and mammals, habitat may be lost as the individuals concerned actively avoid the turbines and even the whole site as a result (Htker, Chapter 7, Helldin et al., Chapter 10), even though the habitat contained within the wind farm may otherwise remain suitable.;Habitat fragmentation is a landscapelevel phenomenon that occurs after habitat loss results in tracts of continuous habitat being broken into smaller, more isolated patches (Didham 2010). It is plausible this occurs within wind farms, primarily as a result of the installation of a network of access roads operating as barriers to free movement of species with low motility, especially some nonvolant invertebrate groups such as some beetles or molluscs (Elzay et al., Chapter 4), some small mammals (Helldin et al., Chapter 10), herpetofauna (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 5) and even some flora with very limited potential for propagule dispersal. In such cases, gene flow between subpopulations may be disrupted. Otherwise, fragmentation at a scale that may occur in a wind farm relative to that in the wider landscape as a result of roads, forestry and