The first model simulation of the global impact if wind farms accounted for a high fraction of global electrical energy was provided by Keith et al. (2004). They modelled the power generation of massive wind energy deployments in North America, Europe and China, as represented by increases in the surface drag on atmospheric flow in these regions. Such an arrangement of wind farms created nonlocal seasonal temperature changes outside the wind farms due to regional changes in equatortopole heat transport. It was estimated that if 10 of electrical energy use is from wind by 2100, there may be a regional and seasonal maximum rise of 0.5C, but that the global rise in temperature would be far below natural and other anthropogenic changes.;An alternative approach was adopted by Wang and Prinn (2010), who used a global climate model to examine potential global climate impacts of wind farms. The effect of the wind farms was introduced into the model by increasing the roughness length at the land surface, which changes the rate of extraction of kinetic energy from the mean wind. Wang and Prinn (2010) also went beyond the Keith et al. (2004) study by including an interactive global ocean. In agreement with Keith et al. (2004), Wang and Prinn (2010) found that largescale wind plant deployment could induce changes in temperature and surface heat fluxes even outside the footprint of the wind farm. They also suggested that this leads to modifications of the global distribution of cloudiness, particularly of low clouds, as well as precipitation.;Vautard et al. (2014) also used a climate model to quantify the climatic effect of a realistic wind energy development scenario on the continental scale, but with a focus on Europe, where country commitments to wind energy production call for a doubling between 2012 and 2020 to a total installed capacity of 200 GW. Overall, Vautard et al. (2014) concluded that the impact of turbines on the whole of Europe would be very small and less than natural variability. Locally, differences in temperature could reach 0.3C, with increases being largest in winter. Seasonal total precipitation changes due to turbines were calculated to change by a few per cent and were significant only in small, isolated regions. Impacts would not be significant during the growing season.