There are two proximate causes of direct mortality of bats at wind turbines (sensu Cryan  Barclay 2009) they are struck by moving turbine blades (e.g. Horn et al. 2008 Rollins et al. 2012) or they suffer fatal internal injuries associated with barotrauma (e.g. Baerwald et al. 2008). The most common and most obvious cause of death is trauma caused by being hit by a blade that, at the tips, can move at 300 kilometres per hour or more. However, some dead bats found under or near turbines show no external evidence of traumatic injury, but when examined internally have bloodfilled lungs and chest cavities or damage to their ear drums (Baerwald et al. 2008 Brownlee  Whidden 2011 Grodsky et al. 2011 Rollins et al. 2012 Escobar et al. 2015 Voigt et al. 2015). Such injuries have been linked to barotrauma caused by a sudden change in air pressure (Baerwald et al. 2008). As with other aerofoils, movingturbine blades have zones of high and low air pressure along the length of the blade and at the tip. The internal injuries found in bats are consistent with individuals experiencing a sudden drop in air pressure as they pass close to a moving blade, resulting in burst tympana (ear drums) andor broken blood vessels in the thin tissues in their lungs as the air in either space expands rapidly. Although there is debate as to the magnitude of the air pressure drop around moving blades, and what is required to cause fatal injuries (Grodsky et al. 2011 Houck 2012 Rollins et al. 2012), multiple studies have found injuries consistent with barotrauma (Baerwald et al. 2008 Brownlee  Whidden 2011 Grodsky et al. 2011 Rollins et al. 2012 Escobar et al. 2015).;Bats rarely collide with tall structures such as buildings, and the authors know of no reports of bats colliding with turbines. This is different from the situation with birds, which frequently collide with tall structures. This difference is likely to be due, at least in part, to the different sensory systems used by bats and birds (see Box 9.1).;In addition to injuries that cause immediate death, some injured bats have been found alive under turbines (Klug  Baerwald 2010 Georgiakakis et al. 2012 Barros et al. 2015). While some of these bats have nonlifethreatening injuries and can be released (Klug  Baerwald 2010), some of them may have been unable to take off from the ground because their size requires them to drop from a height to gain air speed. They would therefore have died if they had not been found by researchers. Such injuries suggest that an unknown number of individuals suffer injuries but are able to travel out of the typical search area around turbines, and then die later and go unnoticed. Thus, because of such cryptic deaths, estimates of fatality rates are likely to underestimate the true fatality rates, by an unknown amount.;The two most common wildlife issues regarding wind turbines are fatalities of bats and birds. While the fact that both groups fly makes them vulnerable to being struck by moving turbine blades, there are significant differences between the two groups that make each unique and require different research and conservation approaches.