Turbines have generally been placed in rows facing the prevailing wind direction, with neighbouring turbines separated by an appropriate minimum distance (Serrano Gonzlez et al. 2014) (Figure 4.3A). Increasingly complex models are being used to micro site turbines in patterns that generate more power and higher profits (Serrano Gonzlez et al. 2014) (Figure 4.3B). These micro siting decisions may strongly alter the impacts of wind farm developments on terrestrial invertebrates for a number of reasons. Because invertebrates are unlikely to be uniformly distributedacross the landscape, the choice of turbine location may dramatically alter its biological impact, as variation in invertebrate density (due to, for example, patchy distribution of the resources on which they depend) may alter the probability of collision with turbine blades. At broader spatial scales, the arrangement of turbines will determine the construction of access roads, altering the degree and spatial pattern of disturbance and habitat fragmentation (Figure 4.3).;Figure 4.3 Micrositing of turbines may strongly alter impacts on terrestrial invertebrates. (A) Turbines at older wind farms were usually arranged in rows facing the dominant wind direction (B) complex models are used to microsite turbines in newer wind farms to maximise profits. The spatial arrangement of turbines and associated access roads may alter the biological impacts of wind farms, including the impacts on invertebrates. (Google, USDA Farm Service Agency);Turbine placement may coincide with areas where insects accumulate, increasing insect mortality and potentially attracting insectivorous animals. Insects sometimes gather at hilltops and ridges (Alcock 1987), prime areas for both siting wind farms and micrositing turbines. Furthermore, many insects migrate using wind currents (Johnson 1969) and migration routes may overlap with wind farms. For example, in the study of Zhang et al. (2007), moths migrated with prevailing winds, flying less than 500 m above ground at night during summer. Concentrations of migrating moths on or around turbines may attract insectivorous bats (Rydell et al. 2010). For example, about 40 of bats killed at wind farms in North America are Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus (Kunz et al. 2007