A feature common to the most frequently killed species, not only in North America and Europe, but elsewhere as well (Table 9.1), is a wing design associated with fast flight in open spaces, often well above the ground (e.g. Baage 1987 Collins  Jones 2009). These species have wings with a relatively high aspect ratio (a measure of wing shape, where high values indicate long, narrow wings) and high wing loading (the body mass per unit wing area). Collectively in North America and Europe, species making up 3 or more of total fatalities (Table 9.1) on average have a higher aspect ratio (n12, mean7.04) and wing loading (mean11.2 Nm2) than do those making up less than 3 of the total fatalities (n14, mean aspect ratio6.24, mean wing loading8.5 Nm2 t test, P0.05 in each case). High wing loading and highaspect ratio wings require these species to fly quickly in the open (Norberg  Rayner 1987). The high proportion of fatalities among these species thus makes sense in that their flight behaviour places them up in the zone of risk, thereby increasing the chance that they will be killed. Species with low aspect ratio and low wing loading, such as many Myotis species, fly more slowly, close to the vegetation or over water, and are therefore less at risk.;In North America, the consistent dominance among fatalities of the three treeroosting, migratory bats led to the conclusion that migratory and treeroosting behaviours were somehow responsible for their high fatality rate (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008 Cryan  Barclay 2009). However, it may be the fact that these species fly high in the open (which is associated with being migratory) that is the root cause, not their migratory behaviour or use of trees as roosts. Indeed, the cavedwelling Mexican Freetailed Bat, a fast, openair flier, dominates fatalities in Texas and Oklahoma in summer (Miller 2008 Piorkowski  OConnell 2010), and in Europe, nonmigratory species or populations make up the bulk of fatalities at some locations (Ibaez et al. 2009 Rydell et al. 2010a).;Studies reporting bat fatalities at turbines in other parts of the world are relatively rare (Table 9.1), but the same pattern is evident. Species that are killed, for the most part, have relatively high aspect ratio and wing loading and fly high in open areas (e.g. species of freetailed bats of the Molossidae, including Tadarida and Nyctinomops spp. in Australia, Brazil, Chile and South Africa) (Table 9.1). Again, some of these species are not tree roosting or migratory. For example, nonmigratory, caveroosting bats such as Pteronotus davyi and Mormoops megalophylla have been killed by turbines in Mexico (VillegasPatraca et al. 2012), and species killed in Taiwan are all nonmigratory and some are island endemics (Table 9.1).;One might expect that owing to their inexperience and less well developed flight ability, juvenile bats (i.e. young of the year) would be killed more often than adults (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008). There are also hypotheses as to why adult males or females may suffer higher fatality rates (e.g. Cryan 2008). Contrary to these hypotheses, however, there is no consistent pattern of biased fatalities towards juveniles over adults, or one sex or the other. There is considerable variation in the sex and age distribution of fatalities among sites and species, and this may simply reflect the skewed local population structure in the vicinity of the wind farm. For example, in Greece,