Figure 7.5 Number of wind farm victims recorded in the list of the Staatliche Vogelschutzwarte Brandenburg (last updated on 11 December 2014, T. Drr, personal communication 2014) relative to an index of avoidance derived from the percentage of reviewed studies showing displacement for a group of species. Common and scientificnames for species codes are provided in Table 7.9.;Figure 7.6 Relationship of collision index and avoidance index (see text for definitions) for bird species in Germany. Common and scientific names for species codes are provided in Table 7.9.;To obtain a simpler picture, species were grouped according to taxonomic and ecological criteria. Passerines were omitted because the chance of collisions being reported was assumed to be much less than in nonpasserines (Grnkorn et al. 2009). For each species group, the median class of population size was determined. An index of collision risk was determined for each group of species by dividing the mean number per species of listed collision victims for that group by the harmonic mean of the population size class of this group. Again, the resulting figures were scaled by 10,000.;The distribution of the number of casualties (Figure 7.5) indicates a relationship to the avoidance rate. Species with high avoidance indices were rarely reported as collision victims. This relationship becomes even clearer when collision indexes are plotted against avoidance rate (Figure 7.6). There are, however, many species, mainly passerines, with both low avoidance indices and low collision numbers and collision indices. When species are sorted into groups and passerines are omitted, a clear pattern emerges (Figure 7.7). All groups clearly showing signs of displacement with avoidance rates greater than 50 had few collision victims. Again, the pattern is more distinct when collision rates are plotted against avoidance rate (Figure 7.8). Galliform birds deviated from the general trend by showing hardly any avoidance of wind farms, but rarely fell victim to collisions. The most likely reason for this is that these species rarely fly, and if they do, their flight height is mostly well below the rotor blades (020 m).