When BACI designs cannot be realised, GI designs are a typical alternative. In GI, a series of study plots is established along a distance gradient from the wind farm and continuing to a distance where no wind farm effects are expected (PearceHiggins et al. 2009). In some studies, the whole area extending several hundreds of metres around the wind farm was studied, and bird densities along a gradient from the wind farm to a distant outlying area were compared (Reichenbach  Steinborn 2006). The gradient impact design can yield useful data if there are no confounding variables, such as habitat gradients, that may mask the results (Devereux et al. 2008 Toepfer 2009). In reality, wind farm sites that do not differ from their surroundings are not always easy to find. Many sites for wind farms have been selected just because they provide specific characteristics. Wind farms tend to be sited in open landscapes, at a distance from human settlements and in rather windy places (e.g. often on hills). All these selection criteria may also affect bird densities, and studies using the GI design should therefore control for potentially confounding variables, although this rarely seems to have been achieved.;Until recently, onshore wind farms have been placed most often at sites where wind speed is particularly high, such as open landscapes including coastal plains, open farmland, prairies and mountain ridges. In Europe and North America, wind farms are typically placed within arable land and grassland, with the latter being agricultural, seminatural or natural. Birds living in these habitats, including farmland birds in Europe (Donald et al. 2001) and birds of seminatural and natural grassland in general (Samson  Knopf 1994 Vickery  Herkert 2001), have faced severe declines in past decades. As a result, the chances that displacement will affect bird species that are already threatened by other factors such as intensification of agriculture are high. In the case of mountain ridges, similar arguments apply to birds of prey. As a function of their place in the food chain, birds of prey are relatively rare and many species are of conservation concern and protected BirdLife International 2004 International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) 2014.;Birds are very mobile. Some species such as raptors have large home ranges, whereas many more species are migratory and travel thousands of kilometres twice a year. The chance of encountering wind farms during at least parts of their annual cycle is very high. Even if breeding in very remote regions without wind farms such as the high Arctic, migratory birds may come into contact with wind farms during migration, at staging sites or on their wintering