At larger spatial scales, wind farms can alter climate by changing surface winds, which drive temperature, atmospheric circulation, the hydraulic cycle, and exchanges between the land surface and the atmosphere (Wang  Prinn 2010). Wake effects from turbines can increase precipitation, temperature and evaporation (Baidya Roy et al. 2004 Wang  Prinn 2010 Baidya Roy 2011 Fiedler  Bukovsky 2011 Zhou et al. 2013) up to 20 km downwind, regardless of the size of the wind farm (Baidya Roy 2011). Zhou et al. (2012) showed areas around active wind farms warmed by approximately 0.7C more per decade than nearby areas without wind turbines. Spinning turbine blades appeared to mix air layers from near the surface with those higher up, driving warmer than expected nighttime and summer temperatures and cooler than expected daytime and winter temperatures (Zhou et al. 2012). Shifts in the patterns of daily and seasonal temperature variation on windfarms (Zhou et al. 2013) may be particularly relevant for small invertebrates with short generation times (Vasseur et al. 2014 Wang  Dillon 2014). Substantial changes in surface temperatures combined with changes in precipitation (Fiedler  Bukovsky 2011) may alter plantsoil carbon cycling on wind farms (Armstrong et al. 2014), leading to changes in the vegetation community and its associated dependent invertebrate assemblages (see Food web effects, below).;Anthropogenic disturbance increases the potential for inadvertent introductions of nonnative organisms. Roads, in particular, provide corridors for invasions of exotic plants with companion impacts on neighbouring habitat (Gelbard  Belnap 2003). Nonnative vegetation along roads may be beneficial or detrimental or have no effect on associated invertebrates (Valtonen et al. 2006 Aizen et al. 2008 Bartomeus et al. 2008). Regardless of the direction of the effect for particular species, a metaanalysis suggests that introductions of nonnatives along road verges strongly alter local communities (Vil et al. 2011).;Invertebrates, especially insects, occupy intermediate trophic levels in food webs and, as such, populations can be driven by both top down (via predators) (Romero  Koricheva 2011) and bottomup trophic effects (via nutrients, precipitation, etc.) (Kagata  Ohgushi 2005). For example, the presence of fewer insectivorous birds is predicted to increase invertebrate abundance, thereby decreasing plant biomass via herbivory and increasing plant fitness via pollination (Knight et al. 2006). Conversely, increased nutrient concentrations are expected to increase plant biomass and invertebrate abundance (Kagata  Ohgushi 2005). Wind farms have the potential to alter both the topdown and bottomup effects upon invertebrates in a number of ways. For example, changes in local climate are likely to alter the vegetation through bottomup effects (see Chapter 3 in this volume). Changes in vegetation can have strong effects on the insects that feed on that vegetation, with insects declining if the plant community is negatively impacted, but prospering when the plant community is enhanced (Hairston 1960 Kagata  Ohgushi 2005). Wind farms may have variable effects on vegetation (see Chapter 3 in this volume), making bottomup effects that may affect insects difficult to predict.