Barrier effects have also not been shown to impact individual fitness. For a migratory species, Masden et al. (2009) calculated that small deviations around sites were inexpensive in energetic terms especially as these are undertaken during annual migration. In a further modelling study on a range of breeding seabirds undertaking regular commuting flights, Masden et al. (2010) suggested that energetic costs were more important for those species with relatively high energetic costs of flight resulting from high wing loading. Importantly, costs of extra flight appeared much lower than that imposed by low food abundance or adverse weather conditions. Empirical studies of real situations, preferably with knownindividuals undertaking breeding attempts, are awaited. But even if such studies are conducted, it may be that individuals that are under pressure to provision chicks do not exhibit a predicted barrier effect, but rather overcome any fear to take a shorter route across a wind farm in order to balance energetic costs (see Figure 11.3). Ultimately, this could be a lifethreatening choice if this enhances the risk of collision. In general, it is useful to frame the importance of any displacement in the context of collision, as the two effects are mutually exclusive in the sense that displaced birds cannot collide.;As it invariably involves the death of the individual involved, either instantly or through the injuries incurred, collision with turbines is the most serious effect of wind farms. Birds generally collide with moving blades and in some cases with the tower (Box 11.1) and other stationary structures. Bats on the other hand, collide with blades and also suffer barotrauma, the rupture of internal organs and blood vessels associated with the pressure differences associated with rapidly moving blades (Barclay et al., Chapter 9). In such circumstances, the victim is found intact on the ground near turbines with no external evidence of traumatic injury. Birds do not appear to be recorded as victims of barotrauma, perhaps because of differences in the respiratory system between birds and mammals. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that both small birds and bats may be dashed uncontrollably to the ground by turbulence from fast moving blades without actually colliding with them.;During 20022005, Norways largest windpower plant was established on the western part of Smla, an island off the coast of central Norway. A total of 68 wind turbines cover an area of 18 km2. From 2007, the effects of the wind turbines on bird populations were studied in the BirdWindproject (Bevanger et al. 2010). Special emphasis was placed on the Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla (Dahl et al. 2012, 2013). However, earlier studies from 2006 using weekly searches with dogs as well as occasional visual searches showed that Smla Willow