The influence of habitat parameters may explain why some birdspecies were seemingly attracted to wind farms. Shaffer (2009) found that Killdeer Charadrius vociferus were attracted by the gravel substrates provided by the roads between turbines, and similar habitat associations may help to explain the ostensive attraction to wind farms observed in several passerine species (Table 7.1 and Table 7.6), in particular those nesting in reed beds and on setaside land. The reason behind this is probably related to the infrastructure required to construct and maintain wind farms. Roads and maintenance areas at the foot of the turbine tower have to be established and these are mostly accompanied by drainage ditches. In the wet grassland that often surrounds wind farms in northern, central and western Europe, reeds grow in these ditches, offering nesting habitats to reedinhabiting birds such as Reed Warbler Acrocephalus scirpaceus. In arable landscapes, ditches and unfarmed strips around wind turbines are often the only suitable nesting and foraging sites for farmland birds in an intensively managed arable landscape.;Displacement occurs during both the breeding and nonbreeding seasons (Table 7.1). Avoidance is more common during the non breeding than during the breeding season (Langston  Pullan 2003 Htker 2008 VillegasPatraca et al. 2012) (Tables 7.1, 7.2, 7.47.6). A preponderance of avoidance during the nonbreeding season could be due to the different behaviour of individuals of the same species in different seasons or it could be due to the presence of different, more cautious species during the nonbreeding season. To try to determine which, a comparison of impacts of wind farms on bird species that have been well studied during both the breeding and nonbreeding seasons was made. Table 7.7 shows that more species showed a higher avoidance during the nonbreeding season (60 species) than during the breeding season (32 species). In just one species, the Common Wood Pigeon Columba palumbus, was there a statistically significant difference in the percentage of studies showing avoidance between the breeding and nonbreeding seasons. Outside the breeding season, open habitats in the temperate zones, where most of the wind farms are installed, host large populations of sensitive arctic breeding birds such as geese and shorebirds, that are not present during the breeding season. A general trend for more displacement during the nonbreeding season compared to the breeding season is a result of both the presence of different species and different responses within species.