The preceding text demonstrates much evidence for local displacement of birds due to wind farms. Some of the affected species have an unfavourable conservation status (BirdLife International 2004), whereas others are protected by national and international law including the European Union Birds Directive andor international conventions. To see whether displacement of birds by wind farms has a major impact on the populations of these species, the critical question of whether displacement just causes a spatial rearrangement of individuals without consequences for individual fitness or whether it influences critical components of fitness such as reproductive output and survival needs to be answered. Cumulative effects also have to be taken into account when trying to answer this question. In the context of this chapter,cumulative effects refer to the effects of one wind farm compounded on another, as well as the prospect of different effects from anthropogenic practices, such as landuse change, being added to a wind farm.;There are few studies addressing breeding success and survival in the context of wind farms. As for other themes considered in this chapter, the results are not homogeneous. For example, Hattchett et al. (2013) found that nest density and nest success of Dickcissels Spiza americana were not influenced by distance to wind turbines. In contrast, Dahl et al. (2012) showed that breeding success per territory in Whitetailed Eagles was significantly lower at a distance of 500 m around wind farms on the island of Smla in Norway. The main reason for the low breeding success was the desertion of territories, which was likely to be, but not evidently so, an effect of displacement. In Lesser Spotted Eagles, breeding success was negatively correlated with the proximity of wind farms (Scheller 2009), although the reasons for this were unclear. In contrast to the other studies, Winder et al. (2014) provided evidence that wind farm development had a positive effect on survival of female Greater PrairieChickens. As most female mortality was due to predation and differences in annual survival were driven by a higher risk of mortality, the authors hypothesised that the wind farm development had affected the local predator community, resulting in an indirect effect of decreased predation risk upon the otherwise vulnerable birds during the postconstruction period.;The sheer extent of wind farms may cause problems for some species when their ranges widely overlap with wind farm developments. This holds true for the Golden Plover in Scotland. According to PearceHiggins et al. (2008), proposed and realised wind farms in Scotland overlap with the breeding range of an estimated 5 of the entire biogeographical population of the species. Within wind farms and in buffer zones around them, the reductions of bird densities may be considerable. PearceHiggins et al. (2009) estimated reductions of densities of birds breeding within a 500 m buffer of the turbines by 1553 (see Box 7.1). However, even in areas densely populated with wind farms, such as Denmark or northern Germany, studies on largescale displacement effects of wind farms are lacking. It is simply not known whether birds being displaced by wind farms can easily find other habitats without consequences for their fitness.