As described in this volume, a wealth of studies has charted thenumbers of birds, and more recently, bats killed in a search for understanding of the patterns and mechanisms behind collision. This is not an easy task with a range of factors influencing the detection of collision victims (see Smallwood, Chapter 8, Box 8.3). Huso et al. (Volume 2, Chapter 4) outline the statistical basis for providing better estimates. Despite the potential issues, some general themes have emerged, with raptors generally being the most vulnerable bird group probably as a result of a lack of aversion to potential risk coupled with the particular characteristics of their visual system. Moreover, raptors appear to be at more risk when occupying an area, when breeding or otherwise. In contrast, bats appear to be more vulnerable during migration and are often fatally attracted to turbines for reasons that are beginning to be described (e.g. Cryan et al. 2014), even if not yet fully understood.;Studies pooling results from multiple sites establishing general patterns of collision andor attempting to quantify losses at large or continental scales (e.g. Arnett  Baerwald 2013 Zimmerling et al. 2013 Erickson et al. 2014 Marques et al. 2014 Johnson et al. 2016 Barclay et al. Chapter 9) are particularly welcome. Such studies allow mortality to be placed in the context of other sources of additional mortality from anthropogenic sources such as power lines, buildings, roads, exploitation and even predation from domestic cats (see Thogmartin et al. 2006 Loss et al. 2014). Wind farms generally do not appear to contribute to the scale of losses attributable to other factors, although the value and meaning of such comparison may be debated, especially as wind farms may affect particular species in specific circumstances.;Compilations and metaanalyses also clearly show a wide range of collision estimates both between wind farms and individual turbines. In essence, some wind farms and some turbines are much more dangerous than others, providing considerable scope to avoid the effects of collision by more informed siting of wind farms and individual turbines. This is a key theme in Volume 2 and is explored in the chapters there by Bright  Muldoon (Chapter 5), May (Chapter 6), Smallwood (Chapter 7) and to a lesser extent by Arnett (Chapter 7).