Despite the scant literature, the authors believe that this review has implications for the planning and management of wind power. As a precautionary principle, one should aim at minimising negative effects on terrestrial mammals, even when the effects are not fully proven. That would mean, for example, avoiding construction work during particularly sensitive periods (e.g. in late winter or during calving), limiting traffic and public access to roads, or avoidingsiting wind farms in areas likely to be of particular value to large mammal species.;The responses can be expected to depend on the species, the degree of tolerance or habituation, the landscape type and the pressure from existing human influence in the area. Reliable impact assessments therefore require taxon and sitespecific knowledge about potential effects (e.g. Knegtering et al. 2005 Weiss  Reice 2005). In addition, new wind power development projects should be accompanied by scientifically based monitoring of the behaviour and ecology of terrestrial mammals, not only to validate previous assessment, but also to strengthen the general knowledge base, for the benefit of future wind power planning.;Monitoring schemes of different wind power development projects need to be coordinated and comparable data collected, so that the data basis for analyses accumulates with time. Data should be made accessible for impartial scientific analyses and evaluation of impacts. Such a procedure would be a cornerstone in an adaptive system, where researchers gather new knowledge and learn from previous developments to be able to minimise any negative effects from future projects.;This work was funded by a grant from the Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to the authors, and additional allowances from the consultancy company Calluna AB to J.O. Helldin and from the Swedish Association for Hunting and Wildlife Management to Fredrik Widemo.;Referenceslvares, F., RioMaior, H., Roque, S., Nakamura, M., Cadete, D., Pinto, S.  PetrucciFonseca, F. (2011) Assessing ecological responses of wolves to wind power plants in Portugal methodological constraints and conservation implications. In May, R.  Bevanger, K. (eds) Proceedings Conference on Wind Energy and Wildlife Impacts, 25 May 2011. NINA Report 693. Trondheim Norwegian Institute for Nature Research. Retrieved 18 March 2015 from httpwww.nina.noarchivenina PppBasePdfrapport2011693.pdf;Andersen, R., Linnell, J.D.C.  Langvatn, R. (1996) Short term behavioural and physiological response of moose (Alces alces) to military disturbance