Activities associated with wind farm construction, such as clear felling of trees, can also increase the export of organic matter and nutrients to nearby watercourses (Hope et al. 1994). These inputs can all have a dramatic effect on the aquatic ecology of streams,affecting fish, macroinvertebrates and aquatic plant communities (Murphy et al. 1986 Vuori  Joensuu 1996 Wallace  Webster 1996 Northcote  Hartman 2004). Forestry operations are well known to also have the potential to impact on nutrient dynamics in streams (Rodgers et al. 2010 Forestry Commission 2011). Other construction works associated with a wind farm site can also result in the release of nutrients (Natural England 2010 Murray 2012). This can occur as a result of damage to soils or the acrotelm layer within peat, and the disruption of the hydrological regime as a result. Several studies have documented large increases in the phosphate and nitrate concentrations in local watercourses following tree harvesting (Ahtiainen  Huttunen 1999 Nisbet 2001 Neal et al. 2003). Forestry operations can also release a range of organic carbon forms into watercourses, ranging from coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) such as leaves, twigs and branches to highly decomposed forms such as humus. Significant increases in CPOM can reduce the diversity of stream macroinvertebrate communities and result in an increased biomass of more pollutiontolerant detritivorous shredders (Wallace  Webster 1996). Forestry brash contains much higher nutrient concentrations than stem wood and is, therefore, an important source of leachable nutrients (Nisbet et al. 1997). Phosphorus is often found to be the limiting nutrient in inland fresh waters (Carpenter et al. 1998 Smith et al. 1999). This means that phosphorus is the resource in shortest supply relative to demand, so that increases or decreases in phosphorus have a direct effect on plant biomass. The addition of excess phosphorus to freshwater environments may therefore eventually result in eutrophication and excessive growths of algae and aquatic plants (Dodds 2006 Duncan et al. 2012). Increasing nutrient supply will lead to an overall reduction in the number of aquatic plant species, with a loss of sensitive species and an increase in pollutiontolerant species. More extreme nutrient increases lead to an overall impoverishment of the aquatic plant community, with algae dominating (HattonEllis  Grieve 2003). When these algae die, bacterial decomposition uses up dissolved oxygen, which reduces habitat quality and can even result in fish kills (Nisbet 2001).