Several known and potential effects of wind farm construction, operation and maintenance were identified, some better supportedby peerreviewed scientific literature than others. Known impacts to herpetofauna include mortality due to road strikes and injury due to fire, the latter a global but underreported issue of concern related to wind energy generation. The effects of habitat fragmentation and noise on wildlife have both received considerable attention in the scientific literature, but the authors are not aware of any studies on herpetofauna related to wind farms. In addition, even though off site impacts caused by material acquisition have known impacts on herpetofauna, more research is needed to determine the contribution of wind energy development. Likewise, little information is available on the effects on herpetofauna of decommissioning wind farms, even though substantial decommissioning operations have already been completed in portions of the Coachella Valley of California, USA.;Other potential impacts remain very poorly studied and should be priorities for additional research. For example, there is no published research on the direct impact of wind farm produced vibration or shadow flicker on reptiles and amphibians, and little if anything is known about the production of EMFs from wind farms and their effects on herpetofauna. The same is true for the effects of predator attraction due to bird and bat strikes. Finally, there is an emerging body of scientific literature on the effects of wind energy on climate at local to global scales. Given the sensitivity of herpetofauna, as ectotherms, to even small changes in temperature, research on how they might be affected by wind energy remains a high priority.;In addition, of the two studies found that focused on the topic of interest, only the study in Portugal was conducted before, during and after installation of a wind energy facility. Beforeafter control impact studies with controls and replication are needed to determine causeandeffect relationships for energy development and wildlife (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Lovich  Ennen 2011 2013a). Until a more robust body of literature is generated from empirical