In addition, of the two studies found that focused on the topic of interest, only the study in Portugal was conducted before, during and after installation of a wind energy facility. Beforeafter control impact studies with controls and replication are needed to determine causeandeffect relationships for energy development and wildlife (Kuvlesky et al. 2007 Lovich  Ennen 2011 2013a). Until a more robust body of literature is generated from empiricalstudies, wind energy will continue to be developed without a full understanding of the impacts on herpetofauna.;The foundation of our research that paved the way for this review was made possible through generous support or grants from the California Energy CommissionPublic Interest Energy Research (PIER) Program, the US Geological Survey, the California Desert District Office and Palm SpringsSouth Coast Field Offices of the Bureau of Land Management, and Joshua Tree National Park. Any use of trade, product or firm names is for descriptive purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the US Government.;Abbasi, S.A.  Abbasi, N. (2000) The likely adverse environmental impacts of renewable energy sources. Applied Energy 65 121144.;Agha, M., Lovich, J.E., Ennen, J.R.  Wilcox E. (2013) Female nest guarding in Agassizs desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) at a wind energy facility near Palm Springs, California. Southwestern Naturalist 58 254 257.;Agha, M., Augustine, B., Lovich, J.E., Delaney, D., Sinervo, B., Murphy, M.O., Ennen, J.R., Briggs, J.R., Cooper, R.  Price, S.J. (2015a) Using motionsensor camera technology to infer seasonal activity and thermal niche of the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii). Journal of Thermal Biology 4950 119126.;Agha, M., Lovich, J.E., Ennen, J.R., Augustine, B., Arundel, T.R., Murphy, M.O., MeyerWilkins, K., Bjurlin, C., Delaney, D., Briggs, J., Austin, M., Madrak, S.  Price, S.J. (2015b) Turbines and terrestrial vertebrates variation in tortoise survivorship between a wind energy facility and an adjacent undisturbed wildland area in the desert southwest (USA). Environmental Management 56 332341.;Andrews, K.M., Gibbons, J.W.  Jochimsen, D.M. (2008) Ecological effects of roads on amphibians and reptiles a literature review. In Mitchell, J.C., Jung Brown, R.E.  Bartholomew, B.E. (eds) Urban Herpetology. Herpetological Conservation Number Three. Salt Lake City, UT Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles. pp. 121143.;Ardente, F., Beccali, M., Cellura, M.  Lo Brano, V. (2008) Energy performances and life cycle assessment of an Italian wind farm. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 12 200217.