No published studies appear to have fully documented the effects of the loss of original habitat upon flora and fauna, although it is easy to see that species with specific requirements for habitats that are themselves restricted could be readily affected. For this reason, important habitats for wildlife native to the area should be avoided. In the case of mammals, this may be highquality grazing areas, undisturbed denning sites and migration routes (Helldin et al., Chapter 10). For bats, avoidance of roosts including maternity sites and hibernacula is critical (Barclay et al., Chapter 9). Similarly for birds, known migration routes for vulnerable soaring species (Lucas  Perrow, Chapter 8), breeding sites or colonies of species of conservation importance, and particularly important habitats such as wetlands and lowintensity grassland and prairie are also best avoided. Leaving colonies of insects that are associated with particular foodplants in the case of butterflies for example, or particular microhabitats, is also good conservation practice. Otherwise, anything that is unable to fly or run away, which typically covers, plants, insects and herpetofauna, may fall under the wheels of construction. Reptiles and amphibians are particularlyvulnerable, being relatively slow moving and often taking refuge underground, including for an extended period in hibernation, where they may be crushed or trapped (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6). One of the few studies undertaken suggests that the species richness (Figure 11.2) of herpetofauna assemblages may be degraded by ground disturbance and habitat modification through construction (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6, Box 6.2).;Figure 11.2 Iberian Wall Lizard Podarcis hispanica one of the species within the herpetofauna assemblage affected by construction of wind farms in Portugal (Santos et al. 2010). (Martin R. Perrow);It is also important to note that the loss of habitat to one species may be a gain for another, which could be viewed positively if the species (or suite of species) favoured is of conservation interest. New, profitable habitats may be created along cleared forest edges or alongside access roads for particular flora and fauna, such as foraging bats, birds, tortoises (Lovich  Ennen, Chapter 6) and seed eating, grazing and browsing mammals and their predators (Helldin et al., Chapter 10). Even new ground structures surrounding bases, especially if these involve the use of refuge habitat in the form of rock piles in habitats where these are naturally limiting, may prove attractive to a number of mammals such as Desert Cottontail Sylvilagus auduboni (Thelander  Smallwood 2007) and presumably also to reptiles and a range of invertebrates. Habitat modification as a result of wind farm construction may thus be viewed as having positive effects for particular species.