While the greater number of bat fatalities compared to bird fatalities should be a concern, those fatalities also occur among a small number of bat species compared to fatalities of birds. For example, at a wind facility in Maryland, USA, 262 bird fatalities were spread among 46 species, while 706 bat fatalities occurred among only eight species (Young et al. 2012). Across Canada, fatalities at wind farms included 145 species of birds, while only nine species of bats were represented, despite more than twice the number of fatalities at 4,020 bats versus 1,744 birds (Bird Studies Canada 2014). Another survey of 37 reportsfrom Canada listed 140 species of birds killed by turbines (Zimmerling et al. 2013). A similar pattern is found in European studies. For example, at various wind farms in Sweden, 53 species of birds have been found killed by turbines, but only eight species of bats (Rydell et al. 2012).;Although the effect of humancaused mortality on populations depends on population size and the natural rate of mortality for a particular species, and neither of these is known for bat populations or many bird populations, it seems reasonable that the larger number of bat fatalities compared to bird fatalities, and the greater concentration of fatalities among a few species in both Europe and North America, is likely to have greater consequences for the stability of those bat populations, compared to the consequences for bird populations. Indeed, evidence suggests that populations of small passerines are unlikely to be affected by fatalities (Erickson et al. 2014). However, population effects may be more likely for larger species of birds, such as raptors, that have smaller populations. In addition, there is evidence that effects on habitat and disturbance during construction may be more detrimental to some birds than fatalities caused by the turbines themselves (PearceHiggins et al. 2012 Garcia et al. 2015).;Although there may be nonlethal effects of wind farms on bats and bat populations, fatalities are the most obvious effect. No matter how those fatalities occur, whether bats are struck by the moving blades or killed via barotrauma, the key factor involved is that the bat was in the same place as an operating turbine. Why bats are present where turbines are located has been debated since bat fatalities were first discovered, and many hypotheses have been proposed (e.g. Johnson et al. 2004 Kunz et al. 2007 Cryan  Barclay 2009 Rydell et al. 2010b). Although predictions have been proposed as ways of testing the hypotheses (Cryan  Barclay 2009), none has been rigorously tested, often because of the difficulty in observing relatively infrequent events of bats interacting with turbines, at night, high above the ground. Determining why bats are killed is not just of scientific interest. It may also provide ways to reduce fatalities by altering the placement, design or operation of wind farms and turbines. However, given the diversity of habitats and species of bats involved, it seems likely that multiple ultimate