Many invertebrates produce sound for diverse aspects of their life history, including territorial aggression, courtship and predator avoidance. The spectra of these sounds and the hearing ranges ofmany invertebrate types overlap considerably with the range of anthropogenic noise (Morley et al. 2014) produced by the construction, maintenance and use of roads and turbines. Many invertebrates also communicate via (usually) lowfrequency vibrations through plant and soil substrates (Gogala 2014), and vehicles on access roads and turbines may produce vibrations that disturb those signals (Morley et al. 2014). Although some work has documented pronounced effects of anthropogenic noise on a diverse range of vertebrates, from Ovenbird Seiurus aurocapilla to Greater Mouseeared Bat Myotis myotis and Copes Gray Tree Frog Hyla chrysoscelis (Barber et al. 2010), parallel studies on invertebrates are rare (Lampe et al. 2012 Morley et al. 2014), and appear to be absent in the context of wind farms.;Both turbines and roads can alter local microclimates, with potentially pronounced effects on invertebrates. The elevated temperatures of the turbines may attract ectothermic invertebrates, leading to collisions with turbine blades (see Siting of wind farms, above). Road surfaces, even when unpaved, tend to be much warmer than nearby soil temperatures (e.g. Delgado et al. 2007), both because compacted soils hold less moisture (and therefore are less thermally buffered) and because they lack cover to block incident radiation. Warm road surfaces may attract invertebrates, increasing the chance that the invertebrates or their predators are killed by vehicle collisions (see Collisions, above). Insect carcasses may attract scavengers (invertebrate and otherwise) that feed upon them.;At larger spatial scales, wind farms can alter climate by changing surface winds, which drive temperature, atmospheric circulation, the hydraulic cycle, and exchanges between the land surface and the atmosphere (Wang  Prinn 2010). Wake effects from turbines can increase precipitation, temperature and evaporation (Baidya Roy et al. 2004 Wang  Prinn 2010 Baidya Roy 2011 Fiedler  Bukovsky 2011 Zhou et al. 2013) up to 20 km downwind, regardless of the size of the wind farm (Baidya Roy 2011). Zhou et al. (2012) showed areas around active wind farms warmed by approximately 0.7C more per decade than nearby areas without wind turbines. Spinning turbine blades appeared to mix air layers from near the surface with those higher up, driving warmer than expected nighttime and summer temperatures and cooler than expected daytime and winter temperatures (Zhou et al. 2012). Shifts in the patterns of daily and seasonal temperature variation on wind