Despite these limitations, a body of literature on the effects of wind farms, the tools available to assess effects and how to mitigateeffects has developed. Reviews of effects include Langston  Pullan (2003) and its update by Gove et al. (2013), Htker et al. (2006) and Arnett  Baerwald (2013). Birds  Wind Farms by Lucas et al. (2007) was also an important landmark in bringing together avian research as it stood at the time. The burgeoning popularity of the Conference on Wind Energy and Wildlife (CWW) series has also been instrumental in sharing experiences and disseminating information. This began in Norway in 2010, moving to Australia in 2012, Sweden in 2013, with the latest in the series in Berlin, Germany in March 2015 being the biggest to date attracting 391 participants from 33 countries. The next is planned in Estoril in Portugal in 2017. These events have provided books of abstracts of the contributions (e.g. May  Bevanger 2011 Naturvrdsverket 2013 Kppel  Schuster 2015), conference proceedings based on selected contributions (Hull et al. 2015 Kppel in press) and a special edition of the Wildlife Society Bulletin (see Smallwood 2013) incorporating invited contributions from Norway and Sweden.;A quick glance at any of the publications mentioned or attendance at any of the conferences would confirm the view that the literature on the effects of onshore wind farms is dominated by work on birds and (increasingly) bats. Moreover, a burgeoning literature invariably means that any reviews conducted even a few years ago rapidly become redundant. The chapters in this volume (Volume 1 of the series) provide an uptodate review of effects upon as wide a range of taxa as possible from flora through invertebrates to reptiles and amphibians, fish and terrestrial non volant mammals as well as bats and of course birds, whilst also including some of the climatic and physical effects of wind farms upon the habitats and ecosystems they occupy. The concept that wind farms may affect fish or aquatic invertebrates may seem a little farfetched, but the major construction undertaken for wind farms may impact both the hydrology of an area as well as its watercourses. Put another way, effects should never be seen as simply direct, such as collision or displacement, but may also be indirect and manifested elsewhere in the foodweb or trophic chains.