2014). Results from resource selection modelling using a generalised linear model showed that Pronghorn selected for areas closer to wind farms, with lower slopes, standard deviation in snow depth and density of fences (Table 10.1). The 37 individuals whose home ranges encompassed the wind farm did not avoid or select for areas closer to wind farm infrastructure across all three winters, suggesting that individual habitat selection was not affected by the site. Finally, winter mortality risk, measured using spatial variables to predict mortality events over time based on comparing 17 adult females that died compared to 30 that did not, decreased with increasing distance from major roads, increasing time spent in sagebrush habitats and increasing terrain ruggedness (Taylor et al. 2016). Variables associated with wind energy development were uninformative in predicting mortality risk, and therefore exposure to the wind farm did not increase the risk of mortality for Pronghorn at this site.;Table 10.1 Modelaveraged parameter estimates for the top model (containing slope, standard deviation in snow depth, density of fences and distance to wind farm) predictive of adult female Pronghorn relative probability of use at the Dunlap Ranch from three winters combined (2010, 20102011 and 20112012).;Standard errors (SE) for coefficients () were estimated from bootstrapping across individuals. CI confidence interval.;Based on these results, Pronghorn on winter range did not respond negatively to the Dunlap Ranch wind farm as has been documented for other ungulate populations exposed to oil and gas development. The lack of avoidance behaviour and lack of increased movement rates observed may be a result of several factors. First, Pronghorn may be more adaptable or tolerant to wind energy development than other ungulate species. Secondly, Pronghorn did not need to rely solely on the Dunlap Ranch for winter range, as the average home range size was nearly five times larger than the wind farm. Therefore, home