The physical form of a water body is fundamental to river biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, since the morphological structure of the channel provides habitat for the biota and a physical framework for ecosystem processes (Brookes 1988 Sullivan et al. 2004 Elosegi et al. 2010). Indeed, the European Union (EU) Water Framework Directive European Commission (EC) 2000 recognises that physical habitat is, along with water quality and quantity, one of the three fundamental influences on aquatic ecosystems. The assumption is that there is a clear link between stream biota and the three components of stream habitat (Conallin et al. 2010). The development of wind farm sites has the potential to impact directly on the physical habitat of aquatic areas, such as watercourses, in a variety of ways similar to those reported for other construction projects. Direct impacts on aquatic areas would include the loss of part of a watercourse under an access road bridge. There is also the potential for the foundations of wind turbines and other hardstanding areas to be built too near or even over watercourses, resulting in habitat loss or degradation. Similar effects can also occur when the electrical cable network is being installed on a wind farm site, as cables are often placed in trenches and have to cross watercourses on the site. Other direct impacts may occur where streams are dredged or otherwise modified to improve drainage, or realigned to provide access for wind farm infrastructure. Wind farms are often developed in areas where there are commercial forestry plantations, and clearfelling or keyholing of trees in advance of wind farm construction can cause a number of direct and indirect impacts on aquatic habitats. These can include direct impacts as a result of machinery access and loss of riparian tree cover, and also water pollution due to runoff of sediment or nutrients from deforested areas (Hartman  Scrivener 1990 Hartman et al. 1996 Northcote  Hartman 2004).;Many of the impacts are temporary however, permanent loss of habitat due to culverting or bankstream alteration can also occur. Landslides or bog bursts that have profoundly altered entire river subcatchments have occurred as a result of wind farm construction (Lindsay  Bragg 2005 Dykes  Jennings 2011 Long et al. 2011) (Figure 5.4). A range of indirect impacts can affect habitats through effects upon water quality (see Water quality, above), patterns of erosion and sedimentation (see Fluvial geormophology, below) and as a result of barriers to natural movement (see Habitat fragmentation and isolation, below).