Since early history, humans have harnessed the power of the wind to propel boats, grind grain and pump water. When the generation of electricity became sufficient for industrial purposes at the end of the nineteenth century, the first prototypes of modern wind turbineswere built using technology based on the classical windmill. Generally, these were to provide power to farms and remote locations. It was not until the oil crisis of the 1970s, with the consequential increase in the price of oil, that interest was raised in identifying ecologically and commercially viable alternative energies and wind power came into focus. For example, in the USA, the Federal Government worked with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to research and develop utilityscale wind turbines (Wind Energy Foundation 2015). Thereafter, concerns were raised over the environmental and economic threat of global warming due to a number of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Thus, increasing atmospheric concentrations of GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane resulting from industrial processes, the refining and burning of fossil fuels, and intensive livestock farming, provided additional stimulus for research and development into the potential of wind power (Box 1.1).;Global warming has become the most prominent environmental issue of our time. Growing public awareness of the effects of elevated global temperatures has been driven by clear signs around the world that climate change is already happening. From the UK Stern Review in 2007 (Stern 2007) to the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) reports (IPCC 2014), stark warnings are coming from both scientific and economic experts who think that climate change is a reality and that the consequences to the environment and our society will be significant.;However, it was the climate change research undertaken in the 1970s and 1980s that led to the development of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the Rio Convention on Climate Change and Biodiversity in 1992. Following the Rio Convention, targets were set for ratifying countries to reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as defined by the Kyoto Protocol, which was adopted in 1997 and came into legal force in 2005. This protocol requires that a number of industrialised countries reduce their GHG emissions by an average of 5 below 1990 levels during the first commitment period of 2008 to 2012, with additional