Figure 6.5 The strawcoloured annual plants immediately behind this male Agassizs Desert Tortoise are Sahara Mustard Brassica tournefortii. This invasive species dominates the Mesa wind farm near Palm Springs, California, USA, in some years and proliferates in response to ground disturbance and fire, especially following wet winters. Although tortoises occasionally eat leaves on the rosettes, Sahara Mustard has displaced native annual forbs and grasses that tortoises ate before its invasion. (Jeffrey Lovich);To the best of the authors knowledge, the study of Lovich et al. (2011c) remains the only one that has investigated the effects of fire on wildlife within a wind farm. However, that fire was unrelated to energy production and although it started offsite, it spread quickly into the wind farm. The present investigation found very few differences in activity, movement and reproductive output of G. agassizii living in the wind farm during the period shortly after the fire and in the intervening 15 years (Box 6.1).;With a turbine life expectancy of upwards of 20 years (Crawford 2009), ageing wind energy developments need to be updated as technology improves, and many will be decommissioned at some point in the future, as a result of changing technologies for harnessing energy. Ground disturbance associated with these activities will produce many of the effects on herpetofauna discussed in this chapter and should be factored into lifecycle assessments of impacts and mitigation strategies. As noted by Lovich and Ennen (2013a), repowering of wind farms provides valuable opportunities to examine the direct responses of herpetofauna if background data are available.;This review identified only two published research efforts specifically focused on the effects of wind energy development and operation on any species of reptile or amphibian one in the USA and one in Portugal. It is clear that a great deal of additional research is needed to even begin to understand the effects of wind energy facilities on these ecologically and culturally important animals. Identification of detrimental effects so that they can be effectively mitigated or eliminated remains a vital research need.