The second stage applies the location of potential sites with agood wind resource against known sensitivities of the receiving environment. However, data on the required resolution to make decisions about the suitability of a site are often lacking and generally not available until the developer has undertaken expensive sitespecific surveys. To mitigate this, many countries have started to produce strategic location guidance to assist developers with this process by highlighting areas of higher and lower sensitivity to provide developers with some insight into locations where development may be more acceptable. Good examples of such guidance are provided by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) for Scotland (SNH 2002) and the California guidelines for reducing impacts to birds and bats from wind energy development (California Energy Commission 2007). Sensitive areas may include those protected for their natural beauty, such as national parks, cultural importance or the habitats and species that they support. In the UK, this includes protected areas such as national nature reserves and European designations such as Special Protection Areas for birds (Box 1.2).;Development in or close to protected areas is not always precluded. However, demonstration that a proposed wind farm will not adversely impact the features andor management objectives of a protected area will be required. As a result, developers often avoid such areas as demonstrating no impact is likely to be much more onerous and require collection of more extensive sitespecific data (temporarily or spatially) and assessment with corresponding higher development costs and timescales and an overall greater development risk.;The third stage considers the results of stage one and two against a number of required attributes, such as suitable road access and proximity of potential connections to the national electricity grid, in addition to known constraints. These include proximity to towns and villages, railway lines, airports and military installations, in addition to wildlife reserves and other protected areas discussed above.;Once the attributes and constraints have been complied, a risk based approach is used to examine attributes (both positive and negative) and uncertainties to identify sites with the greatest potential. A site visit is often required to allow developers to use experience and human judgement to make a final assessment. At some locations it may be necessary to erect meteorological towers to provide extra information on wind resource and feed into the decisionmaking process, in addition to preliminary consultation with key stakeholders to gain local knowledge and opinion. Wind