Since July 1994, the National Avian WindPower Meeting series has addressed wind farm related avian mortality issues. During the first meeting, researchers reported that the species mainly affected in different areas were the Golden Eagle in the USA (Orloff  Flannery 1992), ducks in the Netherlands (Winkelman 1990) and soaring birds, especially Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus in Tarifa, southern Spain (Barrios  Mart 1995). The estimated mortality rates among these three studies also varied, with 39 eagles per year, 0.05 birds per turbine per night during migration and 0.075 vultures per turbine per year, respectively. The number of attendeesas well as the questions and topics discussed expanded thereafter and in November 2012 over 360 attendees took part in the ninth Wind Wildlife Research Meeting. which contained more topics and groups of affected bird species such as passerines and grouse as well as raptors, alongside studies of bats (American Wind Wildlife Institute 2013). The National Wind Coordinating Collaborative Wildlife Group (NWCC) continues to publish updated reviews of the available documentation from the USA (https www.nationalwind.orgaboutnwcc).;By the mid2000s, research was continuing apace around the world. For example, in Australia, Smales (2005) and Smales et al. (2005) published two reports about the cumulative effects of wind farms on species as diverse as Whitebellied Seaeagle Haliaeetus leucogaster and Orangebellied Parrot Neophema chrysogaster. The first book about the interactions between birds and wind farms was published in 2007 (de Lucas et al. 2007). In this, more than 30 researchers from different countries presented their experiences and provided an overview of the technologies, potential effects on population levels, different methodologies and the gaps in the knowledge. A series of international conventions then followed at Trondheim, Norway, in 2011 (May  Bevanger 2011), Stockholm, Sweden, in 2013 (VINDVAL 2013) and Berlin, Germany, in 2015 (Kppel et al. 2015). Further species affected by wind farm mortality appeared, including Whitetailed Eagle Halieeatus albicilla and Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus in Norway, Tasmanian Wedgetailed Eagle Aquila audax fleayi in Australia, Western Marsh Harrier Circus aeruginosus and Red Kite Milvus milvus in Germany and Common Kestrel Falco tinnunculus in Portugal, as well as further studies on Shorttoed Eagle Circaetus gallicus, Montagus Harrier Circus pygargus and Griffon Vulture in Spain.;Further conferences with a national or regional focus were held in Melbourne, Australia (Hull et al. 2015), and Jerez de la Frontera, Spain, both in 2012. The latter, the first Iberian congress, attracted more than 150 delegates from Spain and Portugal detailing effects on more raptor species in the region, such as Golden and Bonellis Eagle Aquila fasciata, as well as more unlikely species, such as Duponts Lark Chersophilus duponti (Junta de Andaluca 2012).;In other parts of the world the development of the wind industry and the potential for bird strike is still a relatively new phenomenon. Doty and Martin (2013) presented research on the first collisions from subSaharan Africa from a single pilot turbine over one year, which included a single Little Swift Apus affinis. In New Zealand, Seaton and Barea (2013) identified that the endemic