An important step in the project design process for a wind farm is consideration of how the proposal might be adapted through mitigating measures that reduce andor minimise impacts of an unacceptable level. CIEEM (2006) advises that priority should be given to the avoidance of impacts at source, whether through the redesign of a project or by regulating the timing or location of activities. If it is not possible to avoid significant negative impacts, consideration should be given to ways of minimising the impacts by changes to design, timing or working practices, ideally to the pointthat they are no longer significant. Where any remaining (residual) impact is still unacceptable, compensation may be applied. This generally involves applying measures outside the project development footprint that compensate for significant impacts within it. Examples of compensation include the creation of new birdnesting habitat at the port of Zeebrugge, Belgium, to offset habitat loss within the footprint due to expansion of the port (Stienen et al. 2005). In practice, application of compensatory measures is avoided as it requires demonstration of the success of the measures before construction of a project, which would be likely to result in significant delays to a projects development programme and additional development risk. As a result, there are no examples of compensation applied to permitting for a wind farm in the UK.;Application determination is the period during which the wind farm application and its supporting EIA is considered for approval. Depending on the size of the proposed project and its location, it may be determined at a local or national level (see Table 1.3 for the UK) and the determination process will vary according to the regulatory framework in place. Award of a permit to construct a project usually includes a number of conditions that require completing (discharge) before construction can commence. Such conditions usually relate to permitted development rights, notices of activity, additional information unavailable at the time of application, such as the final choice of wind turbine, detailed construction methodologies and preparation of Environmental Management Plans. Permit conditions also include any mitigation identified in the EIA to reduce residual impacts.;Wind farm monitoring programmes are most commonly undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of any mitigation strategies, which require discharge before construction andor operation can commence. However, monitoring may also be undertaken to improve our understanding of specific impacts. This is generally to address issues where there is a degree of uncertainty over the extent or significance of an impact, but where the potential impacts were not predicted to be of such significance for permitting to be refused (SNH 2009).