Where a site is approved and due to be built, or where a site isbeing repowered, the best location for turbines in terms of lowest predicted collision rate may be achieved through modelling of key topographic variables underpinned by knowledge of the relationships between bird behaviour and flight patterns (Smallwood et al., Volume 2, Chapter 7). After all, even a dangerous site typically only has a few dangerous turbines, perhaps even only one. Such turbines typically occur on the outermost edges of a site, although if shut down, even if only temporarily, a new edge turbine would obviously be created. Turbine siting has not yet been achieved for bats as far less is known about the threedimensional space use and behaviour of individual bats other than that revealed by the few radioGPS tracking studies (see Hein, Volume 2, Chapter 2), and notwithstanding that bats are often attracted to turbines (Barclay et al., Chapter 9).;Successful selection of the location of turbines or even of the entire site itself also relies on good knowledge of the use of the defined area by vulnerable birds or bats. Surveys before the site is constructed are designed to do just that, with these underpinning EIA. However, Ferrer et al. (2012) demonstrate a weak relationship between risk assessment studies and subsequent recorded mortality of birds. The underlying cause may be that collision rate does not necessarily relate to abundance within the site or immediate area (Lucas et al. 2008). Tack  Fedy (2015) suggest that analyses using points of aggregation, such as nest localities or roosts, to predict abundance in a site may ultimately be a better means of reducing potential mortality of wideranging raptors. Moreover, Smallwood (Volume 2, Chapter 1) comes to the conclusion that collision is linked to particular behaviours, and as such, surveys should focus on behaviour rather than conventional utilisation rates. In turn, utilisation rate distilled to the number of passages (flux) through the area of risk is generally the key descriptor of collision risk modelling (CRM), as described in detail by Smales in Chapter 3 in Volume 2. This would suggest that the predictions of CRM, which are often an important part of EIA, may not reflect actual collision rates once the site is built visvis Ferrer et al. (2012). Smales (Volume 2, Chapter 3, Box 3.1) does, however, provide some examples where predictions from CRM match recorded bird deaths.;Moreover, the scale of the output of CRM is heavily dependent on a number of variables, notably the avoidance rate selected. For example, the use of a 98 avoidance rate produces an output a factor of 2 higher than with a 99 avoidance rate. The rate of avoidance is generally expressed as 1  v, where v is a measure of the birds ability to avoid collision through behavioural means