Arnett et al. 2008), which is a moth specialist (Black 1974). Most Hoary Bats killed at wind farms in New York and Texas had stomachs filled primarily with moths, but also with beetles, true bugs and crickets (Valdez  Cryan 2013). These findings suggest that bats feed on diverse and abundant insects in and around wind farms (Rydell et al. 2010). Given these considerations, information on invertebrate habitat relationships could aid micrositing decisions, strongly altering any impacts of wind farm development on invertebrates.;Beyond coincidental overlap of wind farms with areas of high insect density, turbines may attract invertebrates. Many invertebrates, particularly insects, are attracted to heat (e.g. Thorsteinson 1958), because as ectotherms they rely in part on microhabitat selection to regulate body temperature (Angilletta 2009). The rotor hub of wind turbines is often warmer than ambient temperature, potentially attracting insects to these warm moving parts. Insects may collide with blades or other moving parts when flying towards the source of heat. In the visible spectrum, many insects rely on excellent colour vision to navigate and find resources. For example, some colours are particularly effective at attracting pollinating insects, presumably because they resemble flowers (Abrahamczyk et al. 2010). Turbines are often painted white or light grey, colours that attract insects (Long et al. 2011). Finally, lights on and around wind turbines may attract insects and other invertebrates to these welllit locations in an otherwise dark landscape (Nabli et al. 1999).;Irrespective of whether insects are attracted to turbines or simply coincidentally occur in high abundance with turbines in some localities, substantial numbers of insects do collide with turbines in some localities. Some of the best evidence for extensive collision of insects with turbines comes from studies of the turbines themselves. Turbine operators had long noticed unexpected reductions in power produced by wind turbines with no change in wind speed. Operators could solve the problem by cleaning the turbine blades, which were coated in insect carcasses. The periodicity of cleaning blades appeared to vary widely among wind farms. When normally smooth turbine blades become rough with insect carcasses, flow separates from the blades, reducing the power generated by as much as one half (Corten  Veldkamp 2001). These changes in surface roughness of the leading edge of turbine blades driven by accumulation of insect carcasses are a prominent driver of blade performance and therefore energy production (Dalili et al.