The large area requirements of large mammals, especially carnivores and migratory herbivores, makes them sensitive toprocesses at the landscape level or at larger geographic scales. There have, in fact, been a number of studies of the cumulative effects of different types of anthropogenic development such as oilfields, power lines, resorts and roads, especially on migratory herbivores such as ReindeerCaribou Rangifer tarandus (Helldin et al., Chapter 10). As yet there are no equivalent studies for multiple wind farms, although the effect of single sites, such as that on Pronghorn Antilocapra americana by Taylor et al. (Chapter 10, Box 10.2), has come under investigation.;Initial estimates of the scale of impact of collision mortality, the beststudied effect, on different groups gives rise to concern. Using estimates from various studies in North America and scaling to the capacity of wind power installed throughout the world, Barclay et al. (Chapter 9) suggest 1.497.37 million bats could collide per annum, pointing out that 300,000 bats are estimated to collide in Germany alone. For birds, Zimmerling et al. (2013) suggest 23,300 birds may collide at the 2,955 turbines currently installed in Canada, which could increase 10fold in the next 1015 years with the predicted rise in capacity. Combining studies in both the USA and Canada, Erickson (2014) suggest 368,000 passerine fatalities per annum from wind farms. Comparing estimates from three studies using different approaches to estimating fatalities of all birds, Johnson et al. (2016) suggested reasonably similar estimates of between 250,000 and 500,000 birds killed annually by turbines in the USA at 2012 buildout levels.;In the absence of clear knowledge of cumulative effects, the true scale of impacts of wind farms upon a population of a species with a wide range, such as a migratory bird, bat or large mammal (in relation to displacement), becomes extremely difficult to establish with any confidence. Nevertheless, there have been some attempts to estimate the losses in relation to population size. Erickson (2014) compared estimated losses of each passerine species covered to continentwide population estimates. Blackthroated Blue Warbler Setophaga caerulescens and Tree Swallow Tachycineta bicolor were estimated to suffer the highest losses at wind turbines, both with 0.043 of the population per year.