The policy of and legislative support for wind power globally have led to the construction of wind farms in more than 90 countries and its establishment as a mainstream option for new electricity generation in many markets. Wind power provides a little more than 10 of Europes electricity needs because of the EU Renewable Energy Directive, and the contribution of wind power to the renewables mix in the UK was more than 50 in 2014. Looking forward, it is estimated that wind power could supply 19 of global energy requirements by 2030. However, for this potential to be realised, there needs to be continued political support and policy in place. Pledges of significant commitments to reducing GHGemissions made in the Paris Agreement at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in December 2015 (Box 1.1) suggest that this could become a reality. In contrast, however, the renewables industry and wind power in particular has shown a period of contraction in the past few years, in some markets at least. In Europe, 2014 saw a decrease in rates of wind farm installations of between 75 and 90 in Denmark, Spain and Italy (EWEA 2015), which is affecting investor confidence. Taking the UK as an example, this is not surprising given the lack of political support in the past few years, highlighted by the government announcement in 2015 of the end to subsidies for onshore wind and solar projects (Wintour  Vaughan 2015). In parallel with the need for strong political support, there is also a clear need for wind farm developers and the supply chain to work together in finding further cost reduction solutions to increase the parity of onshore wind with traditional energy generation, and thus, reduce reliance on subsidies while increasing investor confidence.;The choice of turbine types continues to expand with advances in turbine technology, although the basic principle of generating electrical energy from the kinetic energy in the wind remains unchanged. Moreover, while large threebladed HAWTs seem likely to continue to dominate commercial wind farms, the role of small to mediumsized turbines provides further options for domestic and rural application. The increasing deployment of VAWTs, particularly in urban environments, is also expected.;In addition to reviewing the global policies driving renewables energy and the statutory requirements for their permitting, this chapter has drawn out the need for EIA to address continuing potential impacts on some wildlife groups such as birds and bats. While development of a more robust evidence base is important to ensure that the predictions made in the EIA are correct, it would also reduce the number of projects refused consent or delayed over potential environmental concerns by providing developers, and their regulators, with an opportunity to focus on the key issues and identify suitable mitigation. This, in turn, is likely to reduce development costs and risks, increasing the potential for parity with other forms of energy production and investor confidence.