Monitoring programmes often require collection of new data before (pre)construction targeted to the receptors of concern,although occasionally the data collected to inform the EIA will meet this requirement. It is therefore crucial to obtain clear regulator agreement on the scope and methodology of the monitoring programme to ensure that it achieves its purpose. Monitoring is generally required for the first few years postconstruction, but can be required throughout the lifetime of a project. For example, recent changes to legislation in the UK allow for lifetime monitoring of wind farms greater than 50 MW to increase the ability to detect potential longer term impacts that may take several years to become apparent. RenewableUK (2011) advises that the design of the monitoring programmes should ensure clear linkages between pre and postconstruction monitoring phases, and ensure suitability for validating the predictions made in the EIA. They further advise that the programme should include agreed stage gates at which the monitoring outputs are reviewed under an adaptive management plan that allows monitoring effort to adapt (usually reduce) if certain stage gatesrequirements are met. Adaptive management is enabled by regular reporting and feedback to the regulator and key stakeholders. Annual and final monitoring reports are generally a permitting condition in the UK and made public by the regulator after a certain period to ensure that the results of monitoring programmes add to the knowledge and evidence base for future projects. This is an important function as it allows developers to consider this information in the development of future projects in addition to allowing for a more focused EIA. This increasing evidence base is demonstrating that appropriately located wind farms can have negligible impacts (for example, see PearceHiggins et al. 2012).;The policy of and legislative support for wind power globally have led to the construction of wind farms in more than 90 countries and its establishment as a mainstream option for new electricity generation in many markets. Wind power provides a little more than 10 of Europes electricity needs because of the EU Renewable Energy Directive, and the contribution of wind power to the renewables mix in the UK was more than 50 in 2014. Looking forward, it is estimated that wind power could supply 19 of global energy requirements by 2030. However, for this potential to be realised, there needs to be continued political support and policy in place. Pledges of significant commitments to reducing GHG