An important element of baseline studies and EIAs is learning from the impacts already experienced at existing wind farms (New et al. 2015). Studying causal factors of fatalities at existing wind farms can help to predict impacts at new wind farms. It is important to learn how eagles and other birds react to wind turbines (Osborn et al. 1998 Leddy et al. 1999 Hoover  Morrison 2005 Smallwood et al. 2009a 2009c May et al. 2010 Dahl et al. 2013 Hull  Muir 2013 Kitano  Shiraki 2013). Also needed are more accurate fatality rate estimates for comparison with predictor variables suchas use rates, so that investigators can develop predictive tools and formulate mitigation strategies.;The prediction of wind turbine impacts benefits from knowing the sensitivity of local species to wind energy development, where sensitivity links to the conservation importance or relative rarity of the species (Percival 2007 Desholm 2009). It also benefits from understanding the collision susceptibility of bird species due to flight behaviours, relative abundance and reactions to wind turbines. It benefits further from understanding vulnerability to collisions posed by the planned arrangement and design of wind turbines, including the wind farms size (rated capacity), spatial extent, tower heights, rotor diameters, rotational speed, inter turbine spacing and locations of turbines on the landscape. That is, susceptibility is a species predisposition to being harmed by wind turbines due to morphology, ecology and environmental perception, whereas vulnerability is the likelihood of individuals being harmed once wind turbines are installed (Smallwood  Thelander 2004 2005).;Understanding susceptibility and vulnerability has been hampered by five major problems. First, the distinction between susceptibility and vulnerability can be muddled by changes in behaviour or relative abundance caused by wind turbine installations. Patterns of behaviour and abundance seen before construction may not resemble the patterns seen after construction, or they may differ in small but significant ways. Experimental designs and more thorough investigations are needed to discern how and to what degree susceptibility translates to vulnerability following a wind farm development (Dahl et al. 2012). Secondly, comparing observational studies among wind farms by opportunity rather than by sampling design can lead to pseudoreplication (Huso  Dalthorp 2014). Thirdly, European studies found poor prediction of fatality rates based on preconstruction use rates (de Lucas et al. 2008 Ferrer et al. 2012), but no serious verification has been attempted elsewhere. Fourthly, the degree to which relative abundance and behaviours vary within and between species is often unknown and can confound comparisons of fatality rates. Relative abundance measured at a certain place and time may differ from the relative abundance measured after wind farm construction for reasons independent of the sites construction. By not surveying far enough beyond the boundaries of wind farms, investigators often miss measures of aggregation within wind farms that would be more predictive of collision impacts (Carrete et al. 2012). Behaviours can also vary temporally and spatially in response to