For each repowering project, one of the authors (Smallwood) visited the initially proposed wind turbine locations to gain a sense of the collision hazards that flying raptors might face once wind turbines are installed. Preliminary appraisals were supplied to the wind company, which they used to generate preliminary siting maps. For three out of six projects, liaison with project developers, engineers and biologists was then undertaken within workshops to site the new wind turbines in light of the collision hazard maps previously shared, infrastructure constraints and grading considerations. The objective of the workshops was to interpret the collision hazard maps and to agree upon a wind turbine layout that balanced collision risks, model uncertainties and siting constraints. Recommendations were made, but the wind company made final decisions on siting. At the time of writing, siting layouts had been completed for about half of the APWRAs permitted capacity.;The process of developing collision hazard models has been more helpful to careful siting than the models themselves. Observations of birds flying in the midst of wind turbines have promoted learning of what to quantify and where better to focus resources. For the most part, use surveys have been of low value, whereas certain types of behaviours emerged as likely contributors to collisions. At the outset, it was assumed that Golden Eagle abundance mattered most to collision rates, but whereas the data coarsely supported this hypothesis in that without Eagles there are no collisions, abundance proved to be unsatisfactory for predicting fatality rates. A variation on use surveys was adopted by recording locations and behaviours of birds each minute into the survey, but after thousands of these observations it became clear that the point locations were too infrequent and most were recorded far from the terrain where wind turbines are usually installed. Ontheminute Eagle locations were associated with ridge crests, but they were also associated with every other type of terrain in the APWRA, including with midslopes and valley bottoms. After all, to reach the terrain where wind turbines are installed Eagles have to fly over all the other terrain between the features where turbines are installed. Including all of the recorded Eagle locations included more noise than signal when attempting to understand collision hazard. The solution was to focus on behaviours at locations where wind turbine interactions were likely, that is, ridgelike features.