In discussing applications of the Band model, Chamberlain et al. (2005 2006), questioned the value of collision risk modelling until such time as a range of uncertainties about avoidance behaviours have been better established. They stressed the urgency of undertaking studies of avoidance rates that encompass variables such as site specificity and different behaviours and age classes of birds. The most important concern they raised was that the avoidance rate applied for a particular species is a value that is least reliant on empirical data, but is the factor that can affect a models predictions to a degree that is orders of magnitude greater than that of other input values. A small change in avoidance rate can have a large effect on the number of predicted collisions. For example, a 1 change in avoidance rate from 0.98 to 0.99 leads to a halving of the number of predicted collisions. As a result, there has beendebate about the most appropriate avoidance rates to apply. To test the influence of avoidance rate, Chamberlain et al. (2006) undertook sensitivity testing of risk factors in the Band model by varying input parameter values by 10. They found that varying avoidance rate had a far greater effect on the results of the model than for any other variable. However, as pointed out by Busse (2013), there is an error of logic here because avoidance rate is not a factor that contributes risk. It is the failure of a bird to avoid collisions that contributes risk. Hence, sensitivity testing should correctly be applied to the nonavoidance rate, not to the avoidance rate. Thus, for example, where the avoidance rate for a species is considered to be 0.99, the risk factor that should be varied for the purposes of sensitivity analysis is the 0.01 nonavoidance rate. It is immediately apparent that incorrectly varying the avoidance rate by any percentage will make a very much more substantial difference to the outcome than will varying the nonavoidance rate by the same percentage.;Precision in collision risk modelling for a proposed wind farm will be improved if an empirical microavoidance rate is available for the species in question from a very similar operational wind farm. However, because an empirical rate has not been available for most collision risk modelling undertaken to date, predictions are frequently provided for a number of potential avoidance rates, typically in the range from 0.90 to 0.999. In effect, this adds a stochastic variance to results, albeit one not derived from empirical data. With very few exceptions, experience at operating modern wind farms worldwide is of quite low numbers of collisions. Hence, collision risk modelling that provides a range of mean annual mortality estimates based on a range of plausible microavoidance rates offers a useful basis for decisions to be made about the possible collision effects of a proposed wind farm.;Ideally, collision risk modelling should take account of natural variation experienced by bird populations at wind farms. This is particularly so for modelling undertaken to provide estimates of mortality over the 2040year expected life of a wind farm. However, the outputs of the various collision risk models are usually expressed as absolute values. Modellers should be careful to explain that absolute values do not indicate a level of precision in the estimates themselves and there will be variance in the rate at which real collisions will occur. Nevertheless, estimates expressed