The current state of knowledge has helped to enliven environmentally sound wind energy development. Thorough studies have been able to identify important influencing factors in how to decrease collision risk and mortality, mainly for atrisk species, based on site characteristics (i.e. landscape features, weather and habitat quality) (Johnson et al. 2007 Thomas et al. 2011), species characteristics (i.e. morphology, phenology, abundance, behaviour and response to turbines) (Madsen  Boertmann 2008 de Lucas et al. 2008), and turbine layout and design (Barclay et al. 2007 Krijgsveld et al. 2009). Although a number of established mitigation measures are now in use in many countries, such as implemented curtailment and increased turbine cutin speed for bats, and offsite habitat replacement for raptors, among others (Gartman et al. 2016b), many other ideas await implementation. Nevertheless, when assessing the extent and possible significance of potential impacts, it becomes clear that knowledge gaps will always remain. This necessitates a shift from the traditional precautionary approach to a more iterative, errorfriendly method that renders adjustments along the way in order to achieve climate protection goals in an environmentally sound manner.;1. Allow continuous research effort focusing on remaining knowledge gaps, particularly future challenges (e.g. repowering), and effective mitigation measures.;2. Provide guidelines and standards to facilitate planning processes by transferring research findings into practice in projectlevel planning.;3. Support substantial casebycase baseline studies to enable informed decision making so as to avoid potential impacts following methodological standards (BACI) and enable direct comparability among sites.;4. Broadly apply mitigation measures at an early stage in terms of the precautionary principle, accounting for limited predictability of potential negative impacts.;5. Encourage close and longterm monitoring of potential impacts and mitigation success so as to identify and mitigate any further unpredictable impacts, while taking into account inter and intra annual dynamics and longterm impacts (e.g. habituation).;6. Implement monitoring results through adapting goals, measures and facilities, as well as regulations and guidelines.