Population viability analysis was used to evaluate the likelyimpacts on a population of 600 birds using the highest modelled collision estimate that would increase the populations mortality rate by 0.033 from its background rate. Predictions were made using stochastic simulation over a 20year period. In the absence of collision mortality, the probability of declining to a population size of 450 birds or fewer within the ensuing 20 years was 0.10. The smallest population size expected within that timeframe was 501. The additional mortality of 0.033 increased the risk of decline by one bird, with the expected minimum population decreasing to 500, and the risk of decline to 450 birds or fewer increasing to 0.11.;While the exercise suggested that collisions were likely to have a negligible effect on the population, an additional benefit was that it allowed a mitigation target to be quantified. In this case, it showed that increasing fecundity by 0.00033 (from 0.025 to 0.02533) would be sufficient to mitigate the effects of the turbine collisions at the wind farm. This translates to an increase of 0.2 birds being recruited annually to the adult population. Protective measures, such as targeted fox control or wetland rehabilitation, were considered to be well able to achieve this result.;At the time of writing, Stockyard Hill Wind Farm has not been constructed and its design is under review. Collision risk and population modelling are being used in the same way to evaluate potential effects of the revised design on the Brolga population.;Where detailed investigations of demography are not available, integrated population modelling (IPM) (Besbeas et al. 2002 Brooks et al. 2004 Schaub  Abadi 2011) is an approach that permits various sources of data, such as those from individual surveys, to provide sound estimates of demographic parameters (Abadi et al. 2010), and this approach may permit more comprehensive analysis using PVA.;Collision risk modelling for a wind farm often predicts low numbers of mortalities for a particular species, and such low rates are substantiated by empirical carcass data from many operational wind farms. Relative to population size, even for many threatened taxa, collision mortality estimates are so low that they are likely to be completely masked by natural population variability andor imprecise demographic values available for use in population models. These factors may mean that it is simply beyond the functional capacity of PVA to assess effects of collision estimates for a single wind farm. While it is unusual for the requisite