Widespread and often extensive fatalities of bats have increased concern about the impacts of wind farms on bats and other wildlife. Avoiding or minimising fatalities is critically important to both conservation and public acceptance of wind farms. Here, a review of options for mitigating bat fatalities at wind farms is provided. Mitigating impacts of wind farms on bats begins with assessing risk before construction of a site, but once a facility is built and operational, mitigation options are limited to curtailing turbine operations by increasing turbine cutin speed or lowspeed idling. Increasing turbine cutin speed by 1.53 metres per second or feathering blades and slowing rotor speed up to the turbine manufacturers cutin speed substantially reduces bat fatalities during predictable highrisk periods. Other mitigation approaches require further testing to determine effectiveness. Predictions of risk from habitat and species use and distribution models should be tested with fatality data gathered at wind farms from a range of conditions to determine the precision of estimated risk. Other options, such as acoustic deterrents, warrant further research and development but no such deterrents have yet proven capable as a mitigation option. Future research efforts also should evaluate incorporating covariates such as temperature and relative humidity in addition to wind speed when implementing operational mitigation, as well as using automated systems to maximise wind production while still minimising bat fatalities. Whereas gathering information on populations is important and fundamental to truly evaluating biological impacts and effectiveness of mitigation approaches, these data are not expected to be available for most species of bats in the near future. Even in the absence of population data, broad implementation of operational mitigation at wind farms globally is recommended as this offers an ecologically sound strategy for reducing bat fatalities with modest economic losses inmost locations.;Developing renewable energy sources is important for meeting future energy demands, but shifting production from fossil fuels to renewables gathered more diffusely from a broader spatial area will involve tradeoffs (Kiesecker et al. 2011). Windgenerated electricity is renewable, produces no emissions and consumes no water (Union of Concerned Scientists 2011), but high fatalities of bats have often been recorded at wind farms worldwide (e.g. Arnett et al. 2008 Baerwald  Barclay 2009 Camina 2012 Rydel et al. 2010a) (Figure 8.1). Bats are killed by bluntforce trauma or barotrauma and may also suffer from inner ear damage and other injuries not readily noticed by examining carcasses in the field (Baerwald et al. 2008 Grodsky et al. 2011 Rollins et al. 2012). In the USA and Canada, bat fatalities are skewed heavily to migratory, treeroosting species (Johnson 2005 Kunz et al. 2007b Arnett et al. 2008 Baerwald  Barclay 2009). Similarly, migratory species dominate fatalities in northern Europe (Rydell et al. 2010a). An emerging hypothesis, however, suggests that bats moving and feeding regularly in less cluttered and more open air space are consistently vulnerable to collisions with wind turbines, regardless of continent, habitat, migratory patterns and roost preferences (Arnett et al. 2015). Nevertheless, other species, including gleaning insectivores and even fruitfeeders, are also killed occasionally (Arnett et al. 2015).;Figure 8.1 A wind farm in deciduous forest in the eastern USA where thousands of bats have been found killed by turbines and where mitigation is warranted. (Merlin D. Tuttle)