In 2011, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) provided a draft method for collision risk modelling for species of eagle (USFWS 2011), which has since been published as a final plan (USFWS 2013). The model adopts a Bayesian approach and its determination of perturbine collision probability relies on prior experience with turbine collisions rather than on a kinematic model of interaction between a bird and a turbine. In guidance provided with the model, prior examples are drawn from other operational wind farms. Allowance is also made for collision experience fromthe early operational stage of the wind farm under consideration to be utilised in later updates intended to assess the future risk it poses. Adachi et al. (2015) described their collation of empirical data for eagles to ascertain prior examples from multiple modern operating wind farms for use in this model.;The various collision risk models available for use are intrinsically based on common underlying concepts. Nonetheless, some differences between the various models are worthy of consideration, as are some issues that are common to all of them. Comparative summaries of some aspects of available collision risk models are also provided in Willmott et al. (2012), Cook and Collier (2015) and Masden and Cook (2016).;The Podolsky, Biosis and Hamer collision risk models incorporate the capacity for birds to fly towards a turbine from any angle. This is clearly a better representation of real life than a model that considers that all flights will approach a turbine from a single angle, such as those that are constrained by the assumption that all flights will be orthogonal to the orientation of the turbine rotor. While cases in which all flights are from a single direction may occur in real life, such as where migrants on passage are travelling with the wind, such situations are rare by comparison with multidirectional movements made by the majority of species at most wind farms. Whereas the Band model assumes that all flights are from a single direction, Christie and Urquhart (2015) provided a refinement to permit it to be used for flights approaching from any angle.;The Band model accounts only for the danger posed by moving rotor blades and not for other turbine components. For many species and most locations it is likely that rotors represent the greatest risk however, some birds that rarely fly at rotor height are known to fatally strike turbine towers. A notable example is the Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus variegatus at the Smla wind farm (Hans Christian Pedersen, personal communication 2011). The capacity to differentiate levels of risk associated with different turbine components is intrinsic to the Biosis and Hamer collision