When the focus of a study is to estimate fatality of a particular species of interest, the number of observed carcasses can be very small or even zero, yet both of the Xgtype approaches described above can only return an estimate of M  0 with no variance when X  0 (Huso et al. 2015), and parameters in complex hidden Markov models can be difficult to estimate. To overcome this limitation, an alternative approach through application of Bayes formula results in a posterior probability distribution of the total abundance of carcasses (M) arriving at a site over an extended but fixed period (Dalthorp et al. 2014 Huso et al. 2015 Korner Nievergelt et al. 2015). From this distribution, two values important to conservation can be calculated (1) an estimated probability thatthe carcass population did not exceed a predetermined limit and (2) a critical value, M, which is the upper limit of a credible interval for M providing an estimate of which extreme values of M can be credibly ruled out (Huso et al. 2015). An example of how this approach may be applied is shown in Box 4.3.;In Germany, the effect of wind farms on the population of Leislers Bat Nyctalus leisleri is of concern. Daily carcass searches were conducted at eight wind turbines to assess the potential that fatality rates exceeded five bats during a period of 7783 days in the summer (see Niermann et al. 2011 for a description of the protocol data are presented in Table 4.1). Carcass persistence and searcher efficiency were estimated independently for each turbine, and the proportion of carcasses expected to fall in the searched area was estimated based on the spatial distribution of the carcasses and the spatial distribution of the search area. The overall probability of detection, that is, the probability that a bat killed during the study period is found by a searcher, was obtained by combining carcass persistence, searcher efficiency and the proportion of carcasses in the searched area according to KornerNievergelt et al. (2011). Confidence intervals of the detection probabilities were obtained by Monte Carlo simulations.;Table 4.1 Observed carcass count (X) of Leislers Bats and estimated probability of detection () at each of eight turbines monitored for longer than 75 days.a;Table 4.1 Observed carcass count (X) of Leislers Bats and estimated probability of detection () at each of eight turbines monitored for longer than 75 days.aaThe estimated posterior probability that the total fatality exceeded 05 individuals is shown for each turbine and for all turbines combined.