A number of methods have been referred to as wind farm collision risk models. These include at least the following three categories (1) spatiotemporal models of bird occurrence (2) modelsof the mechanical interaction of a bird with a wind turbine and (3) models designed to estimate a number of mortalities for particular taxa due to collisions with turbines for an entire wind farm. Spatiotemporal models are designed to predict the occurrence or abundance of birds at the site of a proposed wind farm. They use information for particular species, such as known distributional range, habitat preferences, temporal usage patterns and population density data, to estimate rates at which birds may utilise the site of a proposed wind farm. Examples of such models, and the spatial scales at which they may be implemented, are given by Forcey (2012), Liechti et al. (2013) and Nations and Young (2015). Information provided by such models is of value in determining which species may be at risk of colliding with turbines. They may quantify the rate at which birds use a site but they do not have the capacity to quantify collision risk. In light of this, it is worth noting that measures of bird abundance and flight frequency, sometimes referred to in combination as utilisation rate or use rate, obtained from field surveys at the wind farm site are essential inputs to risk modelling. However, a number of studies of raptors have demonstrated that utilisation in itself is a poor predictor of collision mortality, which is the measure of risk (Madders  Whitfield 2006 de Lucas et al. 2008 Ferrer et al. 2012 see Chapter 11 in this volume). Collision models take account of significant additional factors to quantify potential risk.;Tucker (1996) developed the first mathematical model of bird collision with the rotor of a wind turbine. Virtually all of the subsequent collision risk models have built on, or refined, aspects of Tuckers model. The model describes the mechanical or kinematic interaction between a flying bird and the rotor of a turbine. A model developed by Bolker et al. (2006 2014) extends geometric modelling to consider straight bird flights through an array of turbines. The geometric aspects of these models are fundamental to turbine collision risk modelling but they do not quantify risk in terms of number of potential mortalities. That metric requires additional information, such as the number of flights per annum that may encounter a turbine, the number of birds involved, the number of turbines at the wind farm and the rate at which birds may avoid collisions.