Ideally, collision risk modelling should take account of natural variation experienced by bird populations at wind farms. This is particularly so for modelling undertaken to provide estimates of mortality over the 2040year expected life of a wind farm. However, the outputs of the various collision risk models are usually expressed as absolute values. Modellers should be careful to explain that absolute values do not indicate a level of precision in the estimates themselves and there will be variance in the rate at which real collisions will occur. Nevertheless, estimates expressedas absolute values are very useful during planning of a wind farm for comparing risks associated with different turbines or different wind farm configurations.;There are a number of reasons why the majority of collision risk models are deterministic. Bird population sizes and flight behaviours are likely to vary over short and long timeframes in ways that may affect collision risk over the average life of a wind farm. For this reason, data collection should aim to provide a thorough representative sample of environmental variables affecting birds at the site. However, practical considerations usually impose constraints on these studies and, where collision risk modelling is undertaken to inform a consent decision, they will necessarily be limited to the preconstruction period. Relative to the projected life of the wind farm, bird data available for use in models are almost always collected over a short timespan, representing a limited experience of environmental variables. These limitations mean that input values related to birds are usually absolute. As input values describing turbine numbers, configuration and geometry are also fixed, collision risk models have necessarily been deterministic.;Potential variance in collision rates can be suggested for deterministic results. Symbolix (2009) achieved this by fitting Poisson probability distributions to 20year deterministic projections of mean annual collision risk using the Biosis model for various avoidance rates for two species of eagles at two wind farms in Australia. Fitting a longterm probability distribution not only provides statistical bounds within which an estimate can be expected to fall, but also assists the wider community to understand how an average prediction expressed as a fraction may be distributed in time, given that real collisions will always be whole numbers of birds.;Some stochasticity has been incorporated into theoretical components of some of the available collision risk models. An example is the Hamer models use of Monte Carlo simulations to estimate mean collision risk for a typical flight through a wind farm (Holmstrom et al. 2011).;Collision risk modelling has generally been applied on a whole wind farm basis, assuming that utilisation of the site by a given species is uniform and that all turbines represent equal risk. This simplification is substantially a result of limitations in data collection, and where bird use is likely to vary across a large site owing to different vegetation, land use, topography, air currents or proximity to key resources, a more sophisticated method may be relevant. Intrasite mapping or modelling of differing bird utilisation