A number of the actual or potential indirect effects linked to anthropogenic structures and construction activity are not exclusively associated with wind farms, but are typical of most, if not all, large development projects. As such, the reviews of potential effects upon groups such as reptiles and amphibians, invertebrates and mammals were largely based on the literature available from other developments with similar attributes. The point is that the interest in the interactions between wind energy and wildlife may be promoting a more intensive investigation of possible and potentially complex indirect impact pathways than has been previously undertaken. This is worthwhile in the sense that some indirect effects may ultimately prove to be more pervasive and persistent than the more obvious direct pathwayssuch as collision with turbines.;There are in fact very few examples of potentialpopulation scale impacts, with these generally focused on longlived, slowly reproducing species such as raptors (see Volume 1, Chapter 8). Conversely, there is growing evidence that the scale of mortality for smaller bird species, such as passerines, has been underestimated (see Volume 1, Chapter 8), and it may be that this will be as high as recorded for some bat species (Volume 1, Chapter 9), especially after fatality rate correction has been undertaken (Volume 2, Chapter 4). But what this means for species like bats, where very little is known of population demography and the ability of populations to absorb additional mortality, remains highly uncertain (see Volume 1, Chapter 9 and Volume 2, Chapter 8). Furthermore, there is considerable uncertainty regarding cumulative effects upon populations, even for wellstudied species such as raptors, where at least younger birds disperse even if the entire population does not migrate outside the breeding season, meaning that birds encounter wind farms in other areas outside their breeding territories. Recent research has shown that wind farms in one area may kill migratory bats originating from over a wide area, such as the case of Noctules Nyctalus noctula found at German wind farms, representing distant populations from the Baltic countries, Belarus and Russia (see Box 12.2 in Volume 1, Chapter 2).;There is a certain irony that our understanding of the impacts of wind farms has been immeasurably advanced by careful research at a few key sites known for collision of particular bird species. Most, if not all, of these sites remain in operation. The challenge will be to continue to learn both from these sites, especially as some may be repowered with fewer, larger turbines (see Volume 2, Chapter 7), as well as from others especially in new situations, to better develop effective mitigation in the future.