To the extent that is feasible, these values are drawn from empirical information for the particular wind farm and its site. Empirical data for bird flights at the site are used to derive an annual number of flights at risk. All input values that are derived from such sample data have an inherent potential for error, and Douglas et al. (2012) have evaluated this for flight data used as aninput to collision risk modelling relative to the number of hours over which the data are collected. In an area of highdensity activity by Whitetailed Eagles at the 68turbine Smla wind farm, they determined that there was an asymptote in variability at about 62 observation hours, but they noted that there was still considerable variability in predicted collision rate.;Of course, no avoidance occurs in the absence of turbines. This element cannot be measured before turbines are operational but capacity to avoid collisions with operating turbines is a vital element of collision risk assessment, and flight data collected before wind farm construction provide a baseline against which to evaluate potential avoidance behaviours. This is discussed in detail in Avoidance rates, below.;Tucker (1996) published the first mathematical model describing the mechanical interaction between a bird and the rotors of a wind turbine. The kinematic aspect is a fundamental element of almost all collision risk modelling and the principles of Tuckers model, using bird size and flight speed, specifications of rotor blades and allowance for microavoidance, are incorporated into most collision risk models. The Tucker model considers the potential for a collision with moving rotor blades for flights directly from upwind, downwind or across the wind, but not from any other approach angles and not with the nacelle, hub or turbine tower. The model shows that the position at which a bird intersects the rotorswept zone substantially influences the probability of a collision. Because there is no way to know the positions at which multiple bird flights will intersect with rotor blades, the model allows for the determination of a mean probability for interactions across the radius of the rotorswept zone.;Following the publication of Tuckers kinematic model, a number of collision risk models were developed and began to be used in wind farm EIA. Published descriptions of the models have taken some time to become available and not all have been peer reviewed.