Figure 2.2 A marine radar unit with two antennae to simultaneouslycollect flight direction and flight height of nocturnal migrants at an operational wind farm. (Todd Mabee, ABR Inc.);Tracking radar systems can be used to discriminate among taxa and collect behavioural data on individual birds, bats or insects, including wingbeat signatures. However, this tool is not generally available or commonly used, and has limited spatial coverage (Kunz et al. 2007a). Larkin (2010) used the only known commercially available tracking radar unit in the USA to study the behaviour of bats and nocturnal birds at wind turbines across four operating wind energy facilities, and observed that nightflying birds and bats behaved differently around wind turbines, with birds typically avoiding the structures and bats being attracted to them. However, recognising the limited data set and use of this technology, Larkin (2010) cautioned at this stage not to generalise these findings into broad categories, such as birds or even nightmigrating passerines, bats or migratory bats. Additional methods, such as acoustic detectors, may complement the use of tracking radar and make it more applicable, particularly if there is a species of concern involved.;Many of the same design considerations for acoustic surveys apply to radar studies, particularly when accounting for spatial and temporal variation and relating observations to weather conditions. As with any technology, the use of radar offers a number of advantages, but also limitations. Objectivity and accuracy in identifying targets are challenging because, in many cases, it is not possible to separate birds from bats, and either vertebrate from relatively large insects (Larkin 1991). However, visual verification of a sample of targets can be accomplished when radar is used simultaneously with thermal imaging cameras or nightvision equipment to infer the proportion of birds versus bats within radar coverage (Gauthreaux 1996 Gauthreaux  Livingston 2006). There are also techniques to reduce or eliminate the signals generated by insects by filtering out small targets within approximately 500 m of the radar, targets with poor reflectivity, and postprocessing data to exclude targets with corrected airspeeds below 6 ms (Diehl et al. 2003). Ground clutter, or energy reflected off the ground, surrounding vegetation and wind turbines create echoes that clutter the screen, and precipitation can obscure targets (Kunz et al. 2007a). Although it is not possible to resolve the clutter caused by precipitation, there are strategies to minimise ground clutter, such as by siting the radar unit in locations with low vegetation and topographic features that obscure lowlying objects farther away from the radar (Eastwood 1967 Skolnik 1990).