The vulnerability of a species to wind energy development is strongly influenced by species characteristics, such as morphology, physiology, abundance, behaviour and turbine response, but also site characteristics, such as landscape features (Madsen  Boertmann 2008), weather patterns (Thomas et al. 2011) and habitat quality (Fijn et al. 2012). Therefore, turbine layout and design can also cause a change in the magnitude of an impact. The specificity of species, site and season, as well as site and turbines, requires substantial baseline studies aimed at the assessment of potential impacts and the identification of effective mitigation measures (Marques et al. 2014 Schuster et al. 2015). However, as the predictability of impacts may be limited owing to the variety of turbine structures and blade movement, changes in habitat quality, species composition, abundance and behaviour may result (Ferrer et al. 2012 Arnett  Baerwald 2013). Inter and intraannual dynamics, species mobility, change in habitat use and external factors influencing population size are additional variables that impede the quantification of wildlife impacts (e.g. Red Kites Milvus milvus studied in Germany by Bellebaum et al. 2013). While guidelines providing recommendations on speciesspecific buffer zones can further support sustainability in decision making, impact prediction or collision risk modelling can help to further designate areas of low and high conflict potential (Liechti et al. 2013). Since these models are based on assumptions, there is a need to be aware of the uncertainties (Strickland et al. 2011), which then need to be continually validated, with any unexpected impacts requiring further mitigation.;Previous chapters in this book have documented the conflicts of onshore wind with wildlife, ranging from speciesspecific disturbance and collisions (Box 9.1) to the means of monitoring and the tools available to quantify effects, and finally groupspecific mitigation measures. This last chapter aims to provide a best practice approach for environmentally sound wind energy development within the available framework of international policy, legislation and guidance, with particular focus on Europe and to a lesser extent the USA. These available tools are further described by emphasising their intention, possibilities and weaknesses.