Owing to the difficulties associated with such observational studies, avoidance rates have usually been determined not from direct observations of the behaviour of birds close to turbines but, as discussed by various authors (Whitfield 2009 Band 2012 Cook et al. 2012 2014), by an indirect derivation in which rates are calculated from the difference between a predicted collision rate and the number of fatalities that actually occur that is Avoidance rate  1  (Actual deathsPredicted deaths assuming no avoidance). This approach has a number of problems. For offshore wind farms, collision carcasses cannot be found and tallied. Estimation of the total number of deaths at onshore wind farms is based on the collision carcasses detected during a search regime, and accounting for carcasses missed by searchers and lost to scavengers. While methods to account for searcher efficiency and carcass persistence have improved (e.g. Huso 2011 see Chapter 14 in this volume), the process most often results in mortality estimates with large confidence intervals. As a consequence, a derivedavoidance rate will be imprecise. In addition, the simple difference between the number of fatalities predicted and those experienced may include multiple factors other than avoidance and will actually encompass any error in the model (Whitfield 2009 Hull  Muir 2013 Cook et al. 2014 Weitekamp et al. 2015).;Microavoidance rates for raptors obtained from observational studies (Garvin et al. 2011 Hull  Muir 2013) are lower than those calculated from the derived method (Whitfield 2009 Cook et al. 2012). This appears to be because a derived microavoidance rate includes real avoidance and any errors in the model and because, where the output of a collision risk model is actually a measure of flights at risk (see Consistency of metrics, above), its results will almost always be higher than the number of individuals at risk. As a consequence, a derived avoidance rate applied to such a models output can be expected to be artificially higher than the real rate of microavoidance exhibited by birds. It appears likely that high avoidance rates calculated using the derivation method for results of the Band model (e.g. Whitfield 2009) have been influenced by this effect.;Coppack et al. (2015), Cullinan et al. (2015), Larkin (2015) and Perrow et al. (2015) describe advances in obtaining empirical micro avoidance rates for birds at offshore wind farms. Respectively, these used fixed pencilbeam radar in combination with an infrared sensitive camera system, automated thermal imaging multidimensional radar and Global Positioning System (GPS) boat tracking. The use of such technologies at all wind farms is to be encouraged as they promise improved understanding of real avoidance rates and the capacity to distinguish more clearly between meso and microavoidance.;In discussing applications of the Band model, Chamberlain et al. (2005 2006), questioned the value of collision risk modelling until such time as a range of uncertainties about avoidance behaviours have been better established. They stressed the urgency of undertaking studies of avoidance rates that encompass variables such as site specificity and different behaviours and age classes of birds. The most important concern they raised was that the avoidance rate applied for a particular species is a value that is least reliant on empirical data, but is the factor that can affect a models predictions to a degree that is orders of magnitude greater than that of other input values. A small change in avoidance rate can have a large effect on the number of predicted collisions. For example, a 1 change in avoidance rate from 0.98 to 0.99 leads to a halving of the number of predicted collisions. As a result, there has been