It has long been understood that avian collisions with wind turbines occur disproportionately where wind turbines are positioned on certain combinations of topography and wind. The first large study of bird collisions with wind turbines found that wind turbine fatalities were associated with canyons or cliffs where topography deflected winds or served as flight corridors (Orloff  Flannery 1992). Even earlier, Howell and DiDonato (unpublished data 1991) found more fatalities at turbines near swales and shoulders of hills, that is, breaks in slope. Curry and Kerlinger (2000) found the same pattern. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (2003) interim guidelines identified ridge saddles, notches and rims as hazardous topographic features for placing wind turbines, and recommended not placing wind turbines in or on them. According to the California Energy Commission and California Department of Fish and Game (CEC  CDFG 2007), Once a site is selected, micrositing efforts, such asappropriate placement of turbines, roads, power lines, and other infrastructure, can avoid or reduce potential impacts to birds, bats and other biological resources and Prepermitting studies must be sufficiently detailed to provide maps of specialstatus species habitats  as well as bird andor bat movement corridors that are used daily, seasonally, or yearround. The California guidelines prioritised deciding whether a proposed project site is suitable for wind energy development, and then to carefully site the turbines. CEC and CDFG (2007) continued, Assessing the impacts of turbine siting and determining appropriate turbine placement requires a thorough understanding of the distribution and abundance of birds and bats at a proposed site as well as site specific knowledge of how wildlife interacts with landscape features at the site.;In the first extensive guidance document for studying wind energy and bird interactions, Anderson et al. (1999) wrote, It seems intuitive that avoiding areas of concentrated bird activity would eliminate many potential birdturbine problems. Surveys can be used to determine if a proposed plant site is located in areas of high nesting or seasonal density, or in the range of a threatened or endangered species. Using such data in the site selection and evaluation process can reduce the absolute number of bird deaths. What was left to be addressed were details, such as how investigators can discern variation in use rates with sufficient confidence to make sound conclusions related to macro and micrositing.;Many baseline studies state an objective to inform turbine siting, but evidence is usually lacking that relative abundance or other baseline information substantially affected wind turbine layouts. The layouts of most wind projects appear to have been influenced by wind patterns and slope conditions, which have a bearing on constructability and road access. Therefore, there remains high potential for minimising wind energy impacts through careful siting of wind turbines in new or repowered projects. Such potential has been realised by the ongoing careful turbine siting in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA) in California, USA, one of the worlds most hazardous wind energy sites for birds, which is undergoing repowering from old to modern wind turbines (Box 7.2).