Determining the proportion of carcasses persisting to the next search is more useful than estimating the average persistence time. As such, assumptions about the arrival rates within the interval between searches, as well as the shape of the persistence distribution, have to be made. The exponential distribution is often proposed as an initial persistence distribution because of its simplicity. It is a single oneparameter distribution that is a simple function of the mean persistence time and has a convenientmemoryless property, that is, the proportion of carcasses persisting for d days will be the same regardless of whether the interval starts on day 0 or day 10. Although mathematically attractive, the exponential distribution implicitly assumes that the scavenging rate does not change with carcass age, an assumption that is often violated for carcasses in the field (Bispo et al. 2013 WarrenHicks et al. 2013). In practice, carcass persistence patterns may vary markedly even when average persistence times are the same.;Several twoparameter models, such as Weibull, lognormal and loglogistic distributions, have been found to be much more flexible and therefore better able to capture the persistence patterns seen (Bernardino et al. 2011 Bispo et al. 2013). Two questions to consider when thinking about persistence distributions are (1) What proportion of carcasses is expected to persist to the next search? and (2) Does the persistence probability depend on carcass age? If the answer to the second question is negative, then the exponential distribution might be an appropriate choice. However, fresh carcasses are often more attractive to scavengers than aged ones (e.g. Ward et al. 2006) and feathers can persist long after the fleshy carcass has been removed. In such cases, the exponential model may result in biased estimates, particularly when searcher efficiency is low and a large proportion of carcasses remain undetected and persist to subsequent searches.;Semiparametric models such as proportional hazard models provide full flexibility in that the model persistence pattern closely follows the pattern in the data (Cox 1972). However, these models require large sample sizes (greater than about 25), particularly when average persistence time is long. Proportional hazard models are particularly appealing when data from several sites can be combined, assuming that the shape of the persistence curve is similar, but the speed with which the carcasses are removed differs (KornerNievergelt et al. 2015).;Although wind can potentially cause some carcasses to be blown outside a searched area, carcass persistence is primarily dependent on the scavenger population. If the scavengers are transient, or if their populations vary according to breeding cycle, persistence should be measured independently in each season within which the scavenging population is expected to stay constant. In addition, if local scavengers are primarily visual, as are most birds, then habitat or vegetation structure could influence their ability to find carcasses, and persistence trials should be carried out independently in different vegetation or visibility classes. Visibility classes are defined as those areas within which the probability of persistence is