The level of effort devoted to preconstruction surveys in North America translates to 1 minute and 57 seconds per hectare, or 1 hour and 26 minutes per megawatt of proposed wind farms. Given an average survey effort of less than 2 minutes per hectare, it is hard to imagine anything other than a cursory understanding of avian use of proposed wind farms, especially considering that many hectares would have been located far from observation stations and often hidden from view by slopes, hills and other occlusions. There should be concern that the hours of use surveys have been insufficient for detecting multiple species, survey intensity hasvaried with distance from stations, and surveys have usually been catchall rather than directed towards resident breeders, migrants or wintering birds. Minimal survey efforts will increase the number of species missed during use surveys but later found as fatalities.;The spatial extent and the spatial grain of survey coverage should affect the accuracy of fatality rate predictions needed for macrositing and the usefulness of data in facilitating micrositing. Among North American studies, the number of observation stations per square kilometre ranged from 0.00993 to 10 and averaged 0.856 among comparable preconstruction studies. Survey coverage of study areas ranged from 0.125 to 150 and averaged less than 73. Averaging less than one station per square kilometre and less than 73 coverage of study areas, North American preconstruction use surveys performed as 360degree visual scans were more suited for macrositing than micrositing, and even for macrositing the variation in survey coverage is likely to affect comparability. For micrositing, all candidate wind turbine locations would need coverage by visual scans.;Use rates should be independent among survey stations to meet the assumptions of correlation analysis, and so overlapping survey areas could impinge on this independence (Madders  Whitfield 2006). Among the 35 North American visual scan studies where overlap could be measured among observation stations, overlap ranged from 0 to 25 and averaged 2.4. Such a small degree of overlap is probably tolerable, but a 25 overlap in at least one case could pose a problem.;Preconstruction avian use surveys in North America have unevenly covered times of day and seasons. Few surveys have recorded birds flying at dawn, dusk or night, so proposed wind farms have not been assessed for resident owls or nocturnal migrants. Baseline studies ranged in survey effort from two seasons to yearround, even though avian use rates often vary greatly among seasons owing to periods of production, periods of senescence, migration and visibility to human observers. Use surveys stacked in September and October would generate very different Golden Eagle and American Kestrel Falco sparverius use rates compared to stacking the surveys in May or December (Figure 1.4).