Even with specific knowledge of the literature and participation at CWW meetings, I came to the conclusion that it remained difficult for an interested party to judge possible effects on flora and flora and especially the prospects of ecosystem effects focusing on ecological interactions between affected habitats and their dependent species, or between species, one or more of which could be affected by wind farms. In other words, there was a clear need for a coherent overarching review of potential and actual effects ofwind farms and perhaps even more importantly, once that had been attained, how impacts could be successfully avoided or mitigated. Understanding the tools available to conduct meaningful research is also clearly fundamental to any research undertaken.;A meeting with Nigel Massen of Pelagic Publishing in Cardiff in late 2012 at the Chartered Institute of Ecology  Environmental Management Renewable Energy and Biodiversity Impacts conference (where else?) crystallised the notion of a current treatise and the opportunity to bring it to reality. Even then, the project could not have been undertaken without the financial support of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd expressed as my time and the administrative help of Dr Sarah Eglington in selecting and inviting many of the authors.;The industry is effectively divided into onshore and offshore disciplines that share many similarities such as potential displacement and collision of birds, but also differences such as the relative importance of noise, in the type and strength of effects upon wildlife. This provided a natural division into two compendia sharing common themes and threads within a similar framework. Each was to document current knowledge of the effects  the conflicts with wildlife  and to provide a stateofthescience guide to the tools monitoring and assessment and the means of avoiding, minimising and mitigating potential impacts  the solutions.;The scope of coverage was to be global, although as a result of the concentration of different forms of the technology in different parts of the world, there was an inevitable bias in experience of the invited authors of the chapters within the different sections. Potential authors were carefully selected from the large number of academics and consultants now engaged in wind farm studies, for their influential contribution to the science. Fortunately, the rate of takeup was high. Many authors also proved keen to significantly extend their chapters, which resulted in the division of the two parts of the onshore compendium into two volumes this one, Volume 2, describing the potential solutions and Volume 1 outlining the conflicts, as described above.;In this Volume 2, the concept was to focus largely on birds and bats as the two groups that have been the focus of both monitoring and mitigation efforts. The volume opens with Monitoring birds followed by Monitoring bats. These two chapters review available techniques used in both preconstruction characterisation surveys as well as postconstruction surveys. The former chapter also provides something of a critique of use or utilisation surveys that have been the mainstay of bird monitoring at wind farms. Modelling of collision