Whereas the probability that fatality exceeded five at any individualturbine was almost always 0.1, having observed a total of three carcasses, it can be asserted with only 6365 credibility that the total across all turbines did not exceed five. This indicates that the true M may in fact be higher than five (with probability 3537). But one can be quite sure with 98 credibility that the total did not exceed ten fatalities. A more rigorous monitoring protocol that achieves a higher detection probability is needed if a more precise estimate is required.;The probability that the number of fatalities occurring during the monitoring period (M) exceeded 5 for each turbine separately was estimated using Bayes theorem and assuming a uniform (0, 200) distribution as the prior distribution for M. This was followed by an estimation of the probability that the total exceeded 5 by pooling information across turbines, after first assuming constant fatality rates between the turbines and then allowing for betweenturbine variance using a hierarchical model, that is, by partial pooling (Table 4.1). In both cases, the totals were weighted by the number of days monitored. Calculations were carried out using Evidence of Absence (Dalthorp et al. 2014) and Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation algorithms implemented in Jags (httpmcmcjags.sourceforge.net).;Bird and bat carcasses found near turbines have raised concerns about the potential impacts of wind power development on vulnerable species. A first step in assessing how much of a threat wind farms pose to wildlife is the estimation of how many animals are killed. Accurate estimation is more difficult than simply recording how many carcasses have been observed because the effectiveness of monitoring protocols is highly variable and the fraction of total carcasses discovered in searches can vary substantially among species, sites and years. Without accurate assessment of what fraction of carcasses is found, meaningful comparisons of fatality rates of different species or among various sites or different years are not possible, yet these comparisons are critical to advancing our understanding of the impacts of wind farms on bird and bat populations and the means of minimising and mitigating their effects. In general, methods of estimating turbine cause fatality rates are based on combining carcass counts from systematic searches of the ground beneath turbines with estimates of the overall carcass detection rate. Detection rates are a function of search coverage (or the fraction of the carcasses falling within the