Germany established an impactmitigation regulation system based on the Federal Nature Conservation Act (13 BNatSchG) decades before the EU. In this system, unlike the EU policy, there are no restrictions to include only protected areas, and all impacts upon nature and the landscape are addressed. In comparison, only certain species in the EU are protected under Appendix IV of the Directives (Albrecht et al. 2014). With the Endangered Species Act (ESA 1973) and Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA 1918) in the USA, and the Birds and Habitats Directives (1979 and 1992, respectively) in Europe, species are protected from being taken, killed or kept in possession, and destruction of their habitats is prevented at national (USA) and international levels (EU). These policies are taken into account in order to implement mitigation if projects significantly affect, directly or indirectly, species and species habitats.;Guidelines and plans have been created to help wind proponents and agencies to understand and follow the relevant policies, as well as to transfer research findings into practice. For instance, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) created voluntary LandBased Guidelines in Wind Energy that focus on avoidance, minimisation and monitoring for all commercial wind energy projects United States Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management (DOI BLM) 2005 Jakle 2012. In addition, the USFWS created a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) Handbook Addendum with a Five Point Policy for wind proponents, who must create an HCP if they risk killing or harming (e.g. by illegally taking) an endangered species or damaging critical habitat. In the EU, the European Commission provides a guidance document for wind energy developments in accordance with EU nature legislation (Sundseth 2011). In Germany, most guidelines by the federal states regarding the implementation of species and habitat protection in wind energy planning provide recommendations on siting (Nagel et al. 2014). One method is the use of buffer zones, which are placed around protected areas and bird nesting sites and consequently excluded from further planning in order to minimise collision risk. In general, it is crucial to frequently update guidelines to account for new research findings.