Hawk. The models improved during the transition from use data to behaviour data and as sample sizes of behaviour observations were increased, thereby allowing expanded hypothesis testing and the generation of more predictive terrain measurements and event variables (such as those expressing social interactions and near misses with wind turbines). Improvements in the models after each successive repowering project, and as data on fatality monitoring have became available, have enabled learning to anticipate how construction changes to the landscape will alter the collision risk predicted in the models.;Behaviour surveys should be performed by trained behavioural ecologists at all proposed new wind projects. Some flight behaviours will apply generally to all project sites, but others will vary by terrain and wind conditions among sites. Direct visual observations are needed to record sufficient behavioural detail at a sufficiently fine spatial grain for predicting wind turbine collisions. A birds position should be recorded every few seconds from a distance close enough to estimate its location. The spatial grain that worked in the models presented was an analytical grid resolution of 10 feet (3 m), but it would be worth exploring whether larger grid resolutions might suffice. Whereas years and much effort have been spent developing methods, behaviour surveys at proposed new projects could require no more effort than that typically directed to conventional use surveys.;More research is needed, however, to ensure that effort levels directed to behaviour surveys are minimised to fasttrack projects. It takes time to develop observer skills, DEM and terrain measurements. Additional hypotheses of relationships between flight behaviour patterns and collision risk need testing, including for other avian species and for bats (e.g. using thermal cameras to observe behaviours). Postconstruction behaviour surveys are needed to learn whether and how birds alter their flight behaviours in response to newly installed wind turbines. Fatality monitoring is then needed to learn where the collision hazard models went wrong. It is anticipated that improvements to collision hazard models for future wind projects will be required for some time yet.;We thank Pattern Energy, NextEra Energy Inc. and EDF Renewables for opportunities to develop mapbased guidelines for wind turbine siting to minimise raptor collisions. We also thank East Bay Regional Park District, California Energy Commissions Public