Operational curtailment strategies have proven effective for bats (Baerwald et al. 2009 Arnett et al. 2011 see Chapter 18 in this volume) and in at least one case for birds (de Lucas et al. 2012), but otherwise evidence of effectiveness has been lacking for most other attempted measures for minimising or reducing bird or bat impacts after wind turbines have been installed. Given the uncertainty of reducing impacts once wind turbines have been installed, it would be prudent to site wind farms and wind turbines to minimise collision impacts at the outset. The siting of wind projects (project siting) and of wind turbines within projects (turbine siting) is thought to have more potential to minimise terrestrial wind energy impacts on birds than any other measure considered to date (Smallwood 2008 Smallwood  Karas 2009 May et al. 2015).;Methods for siting projects have mostly consisted of use (utilisation) surveys intended to indicate the relative abundance of birds (Box 7.1) (see Chapter 11 in this volume) and bats (see Chapter 12 in this volume), although sensitivity maps have been produced to help guide project siting within regions (see Chapter 15 in this volume). Some of these sensitivity maps have consisted of indicatorlevel weightings using such inputs as Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (e.g. Bright et al. 2008 see Chapter 5 in this volume). Sensitivity maps or spatial models have assumed relationships between wind turbine collisions and the types of flights or behaviours associated with collisions. For example, Ainslie et al. (2013) developed a predictive model from wind patterns that are associated with Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos migration pathways, assuming that migrating Eagles would be more susceptible to collisions. Baisner et al. (2010) used body mass, wingspan and wing surface area of various species to predict glide distances beyond which wind turbines could be sited safely offshore, assuming that gliding and soaring behaviours relate to collisions. Miller et al. (2014) used the overlap between resource selection models of wind turbine locations and Golden Eagle flight locations less than 150 m above ground, assuming that shared model predictions relate to collision risk. Fielding et al. (2006) predicted collision impacts by looking for overlap of Golden Eagle breeding territories with planned and built wind projects, assuming that Golden Eagle impacts are related to activity within breeding territories. However, it is unknown whether any of these assumptions are true, and it is often unclear whether actual project siting has been influenced by the results of baseline studies or