Acoustic and fatality monitoring should be standard practice at all wind farms to assess potential risk and provide data on the spatiotemporal patterns of activity and fatality at a site, particularly in regions where little information is available. If sensitive species are known or suspected to be present, then additional methods, such as mistnetting or roost monitoring, may be necessary. Advanced technologies, including radar and infrared imaging, alsocan be used at a subset of sites to help answer specific questions. Radar equipment is most useful to understand larger scale movement patterns or emergence patterns of a large colony, whereas infrared imaging can provide insight into how bats are behaving near wind turbines.;Regardless of the method or methods employed, it is essential to use standardised monitoring protocols to ensure quality, consistency and comparability among sites. Several guidelines are available and should be consulted to determine the appropriate course of action when developing or operating a wind farm. Lastly, it is important to disseminate the results via publicly available reports or, preferably, in peerreviewed journals. Consistent implementation and dissemination of these research methods will greatly assist decision makers in siting and operating wind farms in a responsible manner, with the goal of minimising bat fatalities while maximising wind energy production.;Many thanks to those who have contributed to our understanding of bat and wind turbine interactions, including several individual wind energy companies who have worked with government agencies and the conservation community to address this complex issue. This chapter was greatly enhanced by review and comments by Martin Perrow.;Anderson, R., Morrison, M. Sinclair, K.  Strickland, M.D. (1999) Studying wind energybird interactions a guidance document. Metric and methods for determining or monitoring potential impacts on birds at existing and proposed wind energy sites. Prepared for the Avian Subcommittee and National Wind Coordinating Collaborative, Washington, DC. Retrieved July 2015 from httpswww.nationalwind.orgwpcontentuploads assetsarchiveStudyingWindEnergyBirdInteractions AGuidanceDocument1999.pdf;Arnett, E.B. (2006) A preliminary evaluation on the use of dogs to recover bat fatalities at wind energy facilities. Wildlife Society Bulletin 34 1440 1445.;Arnett, E. B., Hayes, J. P., Huso, M. M. P. (2006) Patterns of pre construction bat activity at a proposed wind facility in southcentral Pennsylvania. An Annual report submitted to the Bats and Wind Energy Cooperative. Austin, TX Bat Conservation International. Retrieved 15