Although wind can potentially cause some carcasses to be blown outside a searched area, carcass persistence is primarily dependent on the scavenger population. If the scavengers are transient, or if their populations vary according to breeding cycle, persistence should be measured independently in each season within which the scavenging population is expected to stay constant. In addition, if local scavengers are primarily visual, as are most birds, then habitat or vegetation structure could influence their ability to find carcasses, and persistence trials should be carried out independently in different vegetation or visibility classes. Visibility classes are defined as those areas within which the probability of persistence isrelatively constant yet is expected to differ by about 10 percentage points or more from other classes. If local scavengers detect carcasses primarily through smell (e.g. vultures, most mammals and invertebrates), then vegetation structure may have little influence on carcass persistence, obviating the need for independent trials in different vegetation classes. Finally, the size of the carcass can influence the capability of the scavenger to completely remove it hence, carcass size should be considered as a potential factor. The optimal sample size is also a function of the inherent removal rate, which is difficult to know before conducting the study. Furthermore, how often carcasses are checked, particularly during the period immediately after their placement, can greatly affect the precision and accuracy of the estimates. Frequent checks (every 12 hours or daily) in the first few days followed by gradually increasing intervals between checks can provide a balance between the precision needed and logisticresource constraints.;A target minimum of approximately 1525 trial carcasses should be monitored in the field for each combination of factors that may influence the persistence of a carcass. Fewer carcasses may be required if persistence time is expected to be long and carcass checks occur often, particularly immediately after placement. More may be needed if carcass checks are infrequent or persistence rates are expected to be short. The larger the trial carcass sample size in each factor combination and the more precisely the time of disappearance is recorded, the more precise will be the estimated proportion persisting long enough to be present when searches are conducted. However, trial carcasses may attract scavengers, thereby reducing persistence times and, consequently, the precision of the fatality estimates. Therefore, frequent checks of the test carcasses are recommended or, better still, monitoring the persistence of a trial carcass using automated cameras. The more precisely carcass persistence times are measured the fewer trial carcasses needed to achieve the same level of precision of estimates of proportion persisting.;Estimates of carcass persistence patterns can have a strong effect on ultimate estimates of fatality. Assuming an exponential (constant removal) persistence distribution when a twoparameter distribution is most appropriate can lead to large underestimates of fatality, particularly when search intervals are short.