Voigt et al. (2012) investigated the provenance of four batsspecies that comprise the majority of fatalities at wind turbines in Germany Noctule Nyctalus noctula, Leislers Bat N. leisleri, Common Pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus and Nathusius Pipistrelle P. nathusii. They collected 47 tissue samples from five wind farms between July 2008 and September 2009. The data set included 716 samples for each of the four focal species. The stable hydrogen isotope ratios varied among species, indicating that bats originated not only from local breeding population, but also from more distant populations. Nathusius Pipistrelles were longdistant migrants and were likely to have originated from Estonia or Russia, whereas Common Pipistrelles were probably short or middistance migrants. Noctules probably came from Poland or Scandinavia, and Leislers Bats from the Baltic Countries (Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia) or Belarus.;Lehnert et al. (2014) followed up this study with one focused on Noctules. They collected 136 hair samples across 45 wind farms in eastern Germany between 2002 and 2012. Approximately 72 of Noctules were characterised as local and 28 as migratory. Male and female bats were equally balanced in the local individuals, whereas females made up 62 of migrating bats. Juvenile bats made up 38 and 32 of local and migrating bats, respectively. A spatial model suggested that migrating Noctules killed by wind turbines in eastern Germany originated from distant populations in northern or northeastern Europe. Noctules probably migrated from the Baltic countries, Belarus and Russia, with the range of females extending farther than that of males.;The relatively high rate of juvenile fatalities in local populations suggests that siting wind farms away from maternity roosts may be effective in reducing fatalities. The practice in Germany of a 1 km buffer around known roosts may not be sufficient for reducing fatalities of juvenile Noctules, particularly for a species with a large home range.;These data also demonstrate that bat fatalities at wind farms in Germany affect not only sedentary bats, but also individuals originating from large catchment areas up to several hundred kilometres away. The impact on longdistant migrants is of particular concern given that animals that migrate tend to be more vulnerable to extinction than sedentary bats, because birth rates and recruitment can be lower in suboptimal habitats (Pimm et al. 1988). Consequently, wind turbinerelated fatalities may be more significant for northern populations. Thus, wind turbine related fatalities are not solely a local issue and will require