Most proposed mitigation measures focus on adjusted operation, either by altering turbine speed (cutin speed, feathering) or through the temporary shutdown of turbines. For large soaring birds that use thermal updraughts, adjusting the cutin speed, possibly at specific turbines and within limited time windows, may reduce collision risk at lower wind speeds. Barrios and Rodriguez (2004) found that collision risk for raptors at two wind farms in Cadiz province in Spain declined at wind speeds over 8 metres per second. Smallwood et al. (2009b) found similar values for the number of observed birds in flight in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area in California, USA (34 on the Beaufort scale circa 58 metres per second) however, they noted that the frequency of flights close to turbines (50 m) increased with wind speed. Reduction of the risk window by adjusting the cutin speed may, however, come at relatively low cost because energy generation at low wind speeds islimited. Temporary shutdown on demand has been proposed as a promising measure (Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015), but has been implemented in only a few cases (Box 6.4). Its effective use depends on a good detection system to limit unnecessary shutdown and thereby loss of energy generation. Methods used to assess risky situations include visual observations (de Lucas et al. 2012a), avian radar (Davenport et al. 2011 Tom et al. 2011) and video (Collier et al. 2011). Especially when shutdown is restricted to specific events of nearcollisions, its efficacy seems likely to improve as this will limit possible habituation effects.;Another option for mitigation of impacts is to alert birds to turbines or deter birds away from turbines through visual or audible sensory cues. The frontal vision in birds is tuned for the detection of movement (Martin 2011). Improved visibility of the rotor blades may therefore alert diurnal birds to the turbine structure, either by painting one rotor blade black to reduce motion smear (Hodos 2003) or by using ultravioletreflective paint on rotor blades for ultravioletsensitive species (Young et al. 2003). Gulls and passerines are sensitive within the ultraviolet spectrum (355380 nm) (deen et al. 2010 Lind et al. 2014). Raptors and owls, including Burrowing Owl and Golden Eagle, seabirds and waders, and gallinaceous birds are sensitive within the violet spectrum (402426 nm) (Hstad et al. 2005 deen  Hstad 2013 Doyle et al. 2014 Lind et al. 2014). At the Smla wind farm, an average of 7.8 Whitetailed Eagles and 14.8 Willow Ptarmigans Lagopus lagopus collide with wind turbines annually (Bevanger et al. 2010). These high collision rates triggered research testing the efficacy of various mitigation measures, including painting one of three rotor blades black at four turbines to alert Whitetailed Eagles and reduce collision risk (Figure 6.4). Similarly, up to ten tower bases (010 m) were painted black, with the aim of raising the horizon to reduce collision risk in Willow Ptarmigans, which collide with the actual tower. As this is ongoing research, it remains to be seen whether these measures prove to be effective. Although decoys in the form of models of conspecifics deployed on the ground (Martin 2011) have been proposed, their efficacy is still debated (Marques et al. 2014). For nocturnal migrating birds, adjustment of the turbine lighting regimen has been proposed. Although lighted structures may attract or disorient nocturnal birds, at the Buffalo Ridge, Minnesota Wind Resource Area, USA, unlit turbines did not lead to fewer fatalities (Johnson et al. 2000). Using pulsating lights or other wavelengths (blue or green lights) (Poot et al. 2008) may, however, reduce fatalities (Johnson et al. 2007). An ex situ test on Smla