Scotland and England, wind farm sensitivity maps have been created in many more countries or regions using a variety of approaches (Table 5.1). In Ireland, the first iteration of the Irish sensitivity mapping tool was made available to decision makers and the general public in January 2015, following 4 years of stakeholder engagement (McGuinness et al. 2015). The process by which bird species were to be considered for inclusion in the tool involved the calculation of a Species Sensitivity Score (SSS). This was calculated by putting each species through a Species Sensitivity Model based on a number of factors considered to make a species vulnerable to wind farm infrastructure. These included the risk of birds colliding with turbines, being displaced by the wind farm and associated infrastructure, being subject to barriers to movement or migration, or being affected by habitat loss. Each factor was scored on a scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores increasing the ultimate vulnerability score. An internal BirdWatch Ireland Species Expert Group assessed the scores by consulting with external expertise and published evidence. The top 30 bird species was then selected, but this was then reduced to 22, owing to data availability or risk of persecution to particularly sensitive raptor species. The distributional data that were used for the map were collected for a variety of different purposes. A zone of sensitivity was placed around each data point or polygon, with the size of the zone chosen using expert input and information such as species home range sizes and disturbance distances. Each of these species map layers was merged to create a composite 1 km square sensitivity map.;A brief summary of the approaches outside the UK and Ireland is provided in Table 5.2. In addition, following Garthe and Hppop (2004), a number of offshore sensitivity maps have been created (e.g. Desholm 2009 Bradbury et al. 2014), but these are beyond the scope of this onshore review.;Table 5.2 Brief summary of the sensitivity mapping approaches used in different countries and regions outside the UK and Ireland.