The review of monitoring methods is undertaken in the context of the doctrine that selecting the location of a project is generally the most important consideration to minimise potential negative impacts to bats and their habitats (Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources 2011). Site selection can be informed by conducting pre construction studies and assessing the activity patterns and presence of species of interest, or by reviewing pre or postconstruction data from sites in close proximity or in similar habitat types. Because it is not fully understood why bats are interacting with wind turbines, continued monitoring is needed at every site. In addition, research,involving more sophisticated equipment, designed to target specific questions that will benefit the industry and conservation community should be conducted at a subset of sites.;Employing any method or technology requires training, experience and a clear understanding of the relevant research questions. These may include but are not limited to (1) What species are present? (2) What are the spatial and temporal patterns of activity and fatality, and how are they influenced by weather? and (3) How do activity and fatality compare to existing projects in the region (Strickland et al. 2011 USFWS 2012)? In many cases, commonly used methods, such as acoustic surveys and fatality monitoring, can be used to address these questions, but in some instances additional tools will be necessary.;Acoustic monitoring allows researchers to detect and record the echolocation calls of bats, often referred to as bat passes, as they fly near the microphones (Table 2.1). It is perhaps the most practical method for monitoring bat activity at proposed and operational wind farms (Kunz et al. 2007a). However, it is crucial to note that data collected from acoustic detectors cannot measure abundance, because it is not possible to distinguish between multiple bats making individual passes and an individual bat making multiple passes. Hence, acoustic data can only provide population indices or statistical proxies of relative activity (Hayes 2000). Moreover, acoustic data can only indicate presence and given the small cone of reception of acoustic microphones it is impossible to conclude that the absence of activity indicates that bats or a specific species are absent from a particular habitat type or project site (Strickland et al. 2011). Acoustic surveys, however, can be used to identify species or species groups, assess relative activity in relation to weather, habitat or time, and potentially predict the risk of a proposed wind farm. The last of these may be possible if a relationship between acoustic activity and fatality exists. Furthermore, acoustic methods do not interfere with the normal behaviour and flight trajectories of bats, and offer a costeffective means of collecting longterm data (Reynolds 2006).