14 for human searchers, respectively. Similarly, Mathews et al. (2013) reported 73 and 20 searcher efficiency for dog and human observers, respectively. In contrast, Kronner et al. (2008) did not observe higher searcher efficiency for dogs over human searchers, and suggested that the condition of the carcass (for example, old versus fresh, and wet versus dry) may influence detection. Gutzwiller (1990) detailed inconsistent performances by different breeds attributed to different habitat types, weather and physiological condition of the dogs. The use of dogs may benefit searches where a high degree of searcher efficiency is important, such as finding rare species (Mathews et al. 2013). However, protocols for the use of dogs have not been established and may present unique challenges that warrant further consideration (Strickland et al. 2011).;An important aspect of fatality monitoring is determining the spatiotemporal patterns of fatality, by species if possible, and how they relate to weather and turbine operation data. Most studies are conducted during the period of highest risk, which is often late summer to early autumn (Rydell et al. 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013). But spring and summer surveys may be necessary for certain species, such as the Brazilian Freetailed Bat, or in warmer regions where bats are active and potentially at risk year round (Piorkowski  OConnell 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013). Although not necessary for estimating fatality, daily searches are helpful in assessing speciesspecific fatality patterns. Determining the correct age of a carcass is key to relating fatalities to the previous nights conditions. However, it is important to note that realtime conditions when a fatality occurred require video observations of collisions and cannot be determined by the recovery of carcasses alone. Only fresh carcasses, that is, those determined to have died the night before, can be used to make generalisations about the conditions, such as the average wind speed or temperature when the fatality occurred.;During carcass searches, it is good practice to collect tissue and hair samples from freshly killed bats, which can later be used to determine their origin and migratory patterns, predict risk or estimate population sizes (Box 2.2). Using stable isotope analysis, Baerwald et al. (2014) determined that Silverhaired Bats probably originated farther north or at higher elevations than Hoary Bats and that both species originated from a large catchment area potentially hundreds of kilometres away from the wind farm where they were found. Santos et al. (2013) used carcass data to develop species distribution models to predict areas of probable fatality and the