Clearly, the success of implemented mitigation measures needs to be closely monitored and, if necessary, adjusted. Longterm monitoring is a key component in identifying unexpected negative impacts, overcoming uncertainties and applying additional mitigation efforts to promote environmentally sound wind energydevelopment.;Finally, the review conducted here and the reviews of mitigation in the relevant chapters reveal a clear preponderance of avoidance, reduction and minimisation measures, with no clear examples of compensation (Table 9.1). Moreover, restoration has barely begun to be effectively implemented. In its simplest form, restoration could imply the reinstatement of natural form and function of the habitats and species that were present at the site before the wind farm was built. In some cases, all that may be required is to promote the natural recovery of native vegetation, with this leading to subsequent recolonisation by animal communities. However, as identified in Volume 1, Chapter 3, the reinstatement of vegetation often involves landscaping and the introduction of unnatural vegetation mixtures, typically fastgrowing grasses. Invasive alien species, if not deliberately introduced, often quickly colonise the area, to the detriment of native flora and fauna. Even if natural vegetation is promoted and recovers, native animals may require careful reintroduction, particularly if the site has become isolated from source populations. Overall, restoration ecology (Perrow  Davy 2002a 2002b) is a wellestablished science that to date appears to have been largely ignored in relation to wind farms, in terms of restoring habitats andor species either within a site and its surrounds or in an alternative location as compensation for losses at the site.;In the face of uncertainties, the adaptive management decision process allows flexible management actions based on better understood outcomes through careful monitoring of potential effects. Adaptive management is an iterative process where learning by doing implements improved scientific understanding into policy or operations, allowing management objects to be pursued while simultaneously learning about these management consequences (Williams  Brown 2014). Adaptive management also enables developers, investors and proponents to establish better cooperation and communication between each other. This management strategy consists of doubleloop learning, limiting uncertainty in both the managed project itself, as technical learning (e.g. better reactions to unpredicted impacts), and to society through knowledge gain, as social learning (e.g. increasing knowledge about wind energy in woodland areas through additional monitoring). While a number of countries such as the USA have