Comparing raptor behaviour observations and wind turbine fatalities to terrain features required a digital map of terrain. To obtain this map, geoprocessing tasks were carried out using a ten foot cell size in a DEM created by combining DEMs from Contra Costa and Alameda Counties, produced from lidar data and ARC TIN software by Mapcon Mapping Inc. in 20072008. The APWRA DEM, composed of 25,440,000 10foot cells within the APWRAs boundary, was then converted to a cell centroid point feature class and each point was assigned a unique membership number. All derived terrain attributes were calculated for the entire APWRA DEM, including each cell centroid point feature class. An aggregated 792 m buffer around behaviour stations served as the mask (limit) for analysing raptor behaviour data against the DEMs terrain attributes. The 792 m radius was converted to a 2,600 foot radius and an additional 200 feet was added to buffer modelling data for geoprocessing and to ensure that all raptor observations would be covered. The resulting analytical grid within the behaviour survey areas composed a 7,548,578cell subset (30) of the APWRA DEM. An analytical grid composed of 393,555 cells serving as the study area for the behaviour observations within 10 m buffered ridgelike features formed another mask. Both analytical grids were used to develop and test predictive models.;The same geoprocessing steps were used to characterise terrain attributes, as reported in Smallwood et al. (2009a), starting with using the curvature function and proceeding with a series of geoprocessing steps to characterise a surface composed of convex trending features such as ridge crests and peaks (collectively referred to as ridges) and concavetrending features such as valleys, ravines, ridge saddles and basins (collectively referred to as valleys). Line features representing the estimated average centres of ridge crests and valley bottoms were also derived from methods described in Smallwood et al. (2009a), but since that study clipped lines have also been used to represent ridges and valleys to identify the major valleys and major ridges as the topographic features dominating the local skyline and local drainage systems (Figure 7.4).;As in Smallwood et al. (2009a), most terrain measurements were derived by first measuring horizontal and vertical distances (m) between each DEM grid cell and (1) the nearest valley bottom boundary (in the valley line combined data set) and (2) the nearest ridge top boundary or ridgeline (in the ridgeline combined data set). From these measures, many terrain attributes could be derived.