This chapter provides a review and synthesis of information regarding options for mitigating bat fatalities at wind farms by using all published articles and publicly available reports compiled by Arnett and Baerwald (2013) for their synthesis on wind energy impacts on bats. Mitigation options are discussed following steps outlined in the mitigation hierarchy following Kiesecker et al. (2010) and outlined in Chapter 16 in this volume. This begins with (1) avoidance of sites where the risk of collision is high or involves the potential fatality of vulnerable species, followed by (2) minimisation approaches, such as raising turbine cutin speed andusing ultrasonic deterrents once a wind farm is operational, (3) compensatory mitigation options, and (4) establishing fatality thresholds that would trigger mitigation.;Studies collecting bat activity data with acoustic detectors at wind farms where carcass searches were also conducted have demonstrated positive correlations between postconstruction activity and fatality (e.g. Kunz et al. 2007a Baerwald  Barclay 2009 Amorim et al. 2012 KornerNievergelt et al. 2013). These findings suggest that it may be possible to use indices of pre construction bat activity gathered with acoustic detectors to predict the risk of future fatalities and, thus, appropriate mitigation needs. Yet, according to Kunz et al. (2007a) and Arnett et al. (2015), while numerous studies have documented preconstruction activity of bats hoping to infer risk of collision mortality, the link with post construction fatality data gathered from carcass searches was not established. Nevertheless, Hein et al. (2013) were the first to correlate preconstruction acoustic activity with postconstruction fatalities from 12 paired study sites in the USA. However, they found no significant relationship between bat fatalities per megawatt and bat passes per detector per night, and only a small portion of the variation in fatalities were explained by activity. Hein et al. (2013) concluded that prediction of risk before construction of a wind facility is highly variable and imprecise and acoustic data may not predict bat fatality in any reliable way. One possible explanation as to why correlations between preconstruction measurements of bat activity and postconstruction fatality estimates are weak could be that bats are attracted to turbines, and sites are used differently by at least some species once they are built (Horn et al. 2008 Kunz et al. 2007a Arnett et al. 2008 Cryan et al. 2014).;Exposure risk of bats to collisions with turbines based on theoretical models could improve our understanding of factors influencing fatality and the context of fatalities. In Italy, species distribution models indicate that 41 of the region offers suitable foraging habitat for Leislers Bat Nyctalus leisleri and the Common Pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus, which are vulnerable to wind turbines, and these same areas encompass over 50 of existing or planned wind farms (Roscioni et al. 2013). Fatality risk for these