Advocating for standards in quantifying bird movements in proposed wind farms, Gauthreaux (1995) prioritised reducing the variation in observer skills. Since Gauthreaux (1995), biologists performing use surveys in baseline studies have ranged in skill from entry level to trained ornithologists. Of course, the skills of entry level biologists improve with experience, especially with training and encouragement to seek professional feedback. Some North American studies lasted for only one or a few months, therebyconstraining skill development, whereas some observers in the APWRA accumulated up to 8 years of postconstruction survey experience and engaged in professional feedback to improve their skill levels.;Standardisation of use surveys can improve macro and micro siting, so guideline documents worldwide have proposed standardised methods and metrics. However, standardisation requires more than consistency in selected field methods, particularly those methods implemented during the earliest monitoring studies when little was understood about the information needed for predicting impacts or for micrositing. Standardisation is needed with regard to representing the species and their relative abundance, which means exceeding the minimal levels of effort needed to detect sufficient numbers of birds in support of macro and micrositing. Rather than standardising surveys at something like 12 months of twicemonthly 360degree visual scans per station to a maximum distance of 800 m to obtain comparable use rates (to match survey efforts used previously at other wind farms), it may be more helpful to first identify the number of observations per species and the proportion of species likely to occur in the study area that would be regarded as minimally acceptable for macro and micrositing. Some species are more difficult to detect than others, especially some special status species for which impacts could be of the greatest concern. If use surveys detect only 20 of the species likely to occur on the site, then the baseline study will poorly characterise bird activity at the site and will poorly inform macrositing. If use surveys detect only one Golden Eagle, then the baseline study will contribute little to micrositing to minimise the risk to Golden Eagles. Levels of effort should be standardised to confidently represent onsite bird activity through use rates or whatever other methods deemed appropriate for the local situation, such as whether the bird activity is largely that of resident breeders or seasonal migrants.;The level of effort devoted to preconstruction surveys in North America translates to 1 minute and 57 seconds per hectare, or 1 hour and 26 minutes per megawatt of proposed wind farms. Given an average survey effort of less than 2 minutes per hectare, it is hard to imagine anything other than a cursory understanding of avian use of proposed wind farms, especially considering that many hectares would have been located far from observation stations and often hidden from view by slopes, hills and other occlusions. There should be concern that the hours of use surveys have been insufficient for detecting multiple species, survey intensity has