Acoustic deterrent devices (hereafter referred to as deterrents) projecting broadband ultrasound have been further developed and investigated as an approach to reducing bat fatalities at wind facilities (Figure 8.5). Arnett et al. (2013b) tested a deterrent (Figure 8.6) emitting broadband ultrasound in the 20110 kHz range and found that, after accounting for inherent variation among sample turbines, bat fatalities were reduced by up to 64 at turbines with deterrent devices relative to control turbines. The Arnett et al. (2013b) study, and previous experiments with earlier prototypes (see www.batsandwind.org for study reports), suggests that broadband ultrasound broadcasts may reduce bat fatalities by discouraging them from approaching the sound source that interferes with their echolocation. Zeale et al. (2014) used thedevice developed and tested by Arnett et al. (2013b) to deter bats from churches and other buildings in England. They found that the deterrent was effective at excluding Natterers Bat Myotis nattereri from roosts and keeping them away, as bats did not habituate to the deterrent.;Figure 8.6 A female Big Brown Bat Eptesicus fuscus in a flight room during initial tests of an acoustic deterrent prototype. (Edward B. Arnett);The effectiveness of ultrasonic deterrents in preventing bat fatalities at wind turbines is, however, limited by the distance and area across which ultrasound can be broadcast because ultrasound attenuates quickly and is heavily influenced by humidity. For example, 50 kHz emitted at 20C and 40 relative humidity would have a maximum effective distance range of 20 m (Arnett et al. 2013b) (Table 8.1). Arnett et al. (2013b) cautioned that ultrasonic deterrents are not yet ready for operational deployment at wind farms, but that further research, development and field studies are required. A key consideration is to attempt to optimise both placement and number of devices on each turbine to affect the greatest amount of airspace in the rotorswept area in order to estimate their potential maximum effectiveness in reducing bat fatalities. Future efforts must also evaluate the costeffectiveness of deterrents relative to raising cutin speed, for example, to allow a