In the face of uncertainties, the adaptive management decision process allows flexible management actions based on better understood outcomes through careful monitoring of potential effects. Adaptive management is an iterative process where learning by doing implements improved scientific understanding into policy or operations, allowing management objects to be pursued while simultaneously learning about these management consequences (Williams  Brown 2014). Adaptive management also enables developers, investors and proponents to establish better cooperation and communication between each other. This management strategy consists of doubleloop learning, limiting uncertainty in both the managed project itself, as technical learning (e.g. better reactions to unpredicted impacts), and to society through knowledge gain, as social learning (e.g. increasing knowledge about wind energy in woodland areas through additional monitoring). While a number of countries such as the USA haveadopted this decision process, and Germany has similar first approaches, the impetus in further establishing adaptive management in more projects during the planning phase has been lacking. Nevertheless, this good planning practice could be applicable in any country aiming to reach its climate change goals while still protecting wildlife.;The precautionary principle has been the primary standard in addressing wildlife challenges. Adaptive management overcomes the remaining uncertainties and limitations, while being able to implement new research and lessons in the future (Bond et al. 2015). Policy, planning, operational and institutional settings will become more adaptable for future uncertainties by shifting from up front decisionmaking processes to a more postproject followup process incorporating longterm monitoring, expanding baseline studies and flexible mitigation measures. In terms of better trust and stakeholder participation, the use of knowledge exchange and data accessibility can help problematic outcomes to be avoided and better acceptance to be gained (Nilsson  Persson 2012).;Adaptive management is a promising strategy, yet there are some primary concerns which have slowed this process (Williams  Brown 2014). As adaptive management is based on accepting uncertainties, this is difficult for investors, developers and operators as there is planning insecurity and the possibility of additional costs or further employment in the future. To promote this process, incentives for investors are needed, such as capping financial expenses, avoiding unnecessary surprises in the future by creating clearly designed contracts, or establishing boundaries within the adaptive management process, such as instituting limits on shutdown periods.;The California Condor Gymnogyps californianus (Figure 9.4) has been considered federally endangered in North America since 1967 and by California since 1971 (Battistone 2014). Projects within or near the birds protected habitat must abide by federal and state laws to ensure the safety of the species. The Alta East Wind Energy Facility project did not fall within the condors habitat area but had the possibility to do so in the future, so steps were taken to ensure the future safety of these birds if they were to come within range or even within wind farm airspace. The largest concern is, if they approach the wind farm, what measures