Careful site selection is key to minimising adverse effects of wind farms on wildlife, and this can be aided by planning tools such as sensitivity maps, which are especially advanced for birds. In countries belonging to the European Union (EU), spatial wind farm plans must be subject to Strategic Environmental Assessment. Lack of consideration of environmental concerns can slow the planning process, and examples of this can be found in Bulgaria, Spain and Slovenia. Sensitivity mapping and early stakeholder engagement can help to flag up possible environmental concerns at an early stage in the planning process and aid the location of wind farms. The production of sensitivity maps can be a useful tool to help identify more sensitive areas upfront at the early stages of the planning process. The first sensitivity map for onshore wind farms was produced for Scotland in 2006, based on the Special Protection Area network plus buffered locations of 16 EUprotected bird species, as listed in Annex I of the EU Birds Directive, considered sensitive to the effects of wind farm development. Since then, many international and regional maps have been created using a variety of approaches. Some have been incorporated into national guidance, overlaid with other natural heritage considerations, and some have included social or economic constraints, such as wind resource. Here, sensitivity mapping approaches and their uses and limitations are reviewed. Sensitivity maps are intended to be used by decisionmakers, developers and consultants at an early stage in the planning process, and not to represent nogo areas or to replace the need for sitespecific Environmental Impact Assessment. Their adoption should go some way towards avoiding green versus green arguments, and ultimately ensure a winwin situation for renewable wind energy as a means of tackling climate change and the immediate and longer term needs of biodiversity.;Onshore wind farms may impact on a range of wildlife by a number of mechanisms. The more obvious of these are collision and displacement through disturbance in the case of birds (Langston  Pullan 2003 see Chapters 7 and 8 in this volume), collision and barotrauma in the case of bats (Rodrigues et al. 2008 see Chapter 9 in this volume) and direct habitat loss or damage (see Chapter 3 in this volume). Other factors include the increase in infrastructure, such as roads that act as barriers or a source of additional mortality (see Chapters 4 and 6 in this volume), increased human presence that may impact on sensitive species such as large mammals (see Chapter 10 in this volume), the prospect of increasing alien species (see Chapters 3 and 4 in this volume), and indirect effects resulting from the increase and decrease in abundance of one taxon relative to another, changing interactions such as competition and predation. An example of the last factor is increased densities of prey animals within wind farms that attract birds of prey, with consequences for collision (Thelander  Smallwood 2007).;Overall, it is the effects on birds and bats have been the best documented and attracted the most attention (Langston  Pullan 2003 Rodrigues et al. 2008 Gove et al. 2013). However, different species may differ markedly in their sensitivity to wind farms. For example, among birds, raptors may be particularly susceptible to collision (see Chapter 8 in this volume), while geese, waders and waterfowl tend to be more sensitive to disturbance displacement (see Chapter 7 in this volume). The location of wind farms is the key factor determining their effect on birds and other biodiversity, which is sometimes termed ecological sustainability. This is demonstrated by a few, arguably inappropriately located wind farms causing significant mortalities of particular bird species, for example of Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos and other raptors at Altamont Pass in California, USA (Smallwood  Thelander 2008), Common Kestrel Falco tinnunculus and Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus at Tarifa in southern Spain (Barrios  Rodrguez 2004) and White