It is vital that metrics used in any mathematical model are clearly defined and unambiguous. It is also a fundamental rule of logic that input and output metric parameters must not differ. Unfortunately, this does not appear to be the case with some of the collision riskmodels, as illustrated by confusion between flights and birds. To explain, a key input metric used by all kinematic models is the number of flights for a given species within a defined measure of space and time that are at some risk of collision. Clearly, the number of flights is a different measure from the number of individual birds. Discussions about model inputs are frequently not clear about this distinction and often refer to a number of birds when actually discussing a number of flights. Chamberlain et al. (2006) mention this as a potential issue in applications of the Band model, but it should be clearly defined for any collision risk model. A brief hypothetical example illustrates the importance of the distinction. If 5,000 shorebirds pass through a wind farm once each year during migration, the perannum number of their flights is equal to the number of birds and it is theoretically plausible that 5,000 of these birds might be killed in collisions. However, if two eagles reside at a wind farm site and during the course of the year make 5,000 flights, it is immediately obvious that the maximum number of eagles that could be killed is 2 and not 5,000 (assuming that an individual bird is not immediately replaced by another after it is lost).;Logically, a model that uses an input measured by an annual number of flights and that does not explicitly account for the number of individual birds making those movements, can provide an output measured only by a number of flights at risk. Only in the rare instance where the number of birds and the number of their flights is equal, or where a census or an informed estimate of the number of individual birds at risk is available and this value is explicitly factored into a model, can a model return an estimate measured in the number of birds that may die. The Biosis model explicitly accounts for the difference between these two measures (Smales et al. 2013), but it appears that the majority of published collision risk results from other models represent estimates of flights at risk rather than birds at risk. While the output metric should be defined, a model output measured in flights at risk still allows relative risks to be evaluated, such as those between types of turbines, between turbine configurations or between taxa.;Birds are generally adept at avoiding obstacles within their flight space. Nevertheless, the capacity of birds to avoid turbine collisions has been a subject of considerable discussion in the literature and warrants due consideration and explanation. Percival et al. (1999)