Nightvision goggles and nearinfrared cameras require supplementary lighting to illuminate targets. Infrared light sources or visible light sources fitted with infrared lenses can be used without attracting insects, birds or bats and have been paired with radar studies to identify and track moving targets at proposed wind farms (Mabee et al. 2006a). The need for supplementary lightingcontributes to the logistics and costs of using this technology. Moreover, cloud cover, precipitation and distance can hinder the detectability of targets (Kunz et al. 2007a).;In contrast to nearinfrared cameras or nightvision goggles, thermal imaging detects heat emitted from objects without the need for artificial illumination. Thermal cameras have been used since the early 2000s to study bird migration (Desholm 2003 Liechti et al. 2003 Desholm et al. 2004 2006) and more recently, thermal video cameras have been used to observe bat behaviour in relation to weather and in proximity to turbines. In southwest Germany, Brinkmann et al. (2006) first observed bats in the vicinity of two wind turbines, using thermal cameras from approximately 100 m away. Horn et al. (2008) were then the first to observe bats striking moving blades and repeatedly investigating moving and non moving blades, with some individuals briefly contacting, and possibly landing on, the monopole or blades. Cryan et al. (2014) went on to categorise several behaviours of bats seen altering course towards turbines, related their observations to turbine operation and weather conditions, and compared video observations to data recorded from acoustic detectors, radar and fatality monitoring (Box 2.1). Equipment costs and duration of analysis time limited the number of turbines sampled in these studies for example, Horn et al. (2008) needed three cameras to capture the entire rotorswept zone of one turbine and Cryan et al. (2014) only monitored three turbines (Box 2.1). Despite this limitation, these studies provided valuable information on how bats interact with wind turbines.;Figure 2.4 Still image from a FLIR Systems A6753sc thermal video camera of a bat flying near a wind turbine approximately 80 m above ground level. (Michael Schirmacher, Bat Conservation International)