Bats can be caught using a number of different devices such as mistnets or harp traps (Kunz et al. 2009a). As with acoustic surveys, mistnetting should account for both spatial and temporal variation, by placing nets in different habitat conditions and heights, and conducting multiple surveys across the breeding and migratory seasons. The level of effort required will vary with the species of interest, habitat, time of year and other factors (Strickland et al. 2011). Longterm monitoring stations can be usedto develop a capture history to estimate probabilities of detection and occupancy, but require multiple visits within and among years (MacKenzie et al. 2001 Weller  Lee 2007). For example, the level of effort required to determine the presence of Indiana Bats varies across their range and the project type (linear versus nonlinear). Nonlinear projects within the Northeast and Appalachian Recovery Units require a minimum of 42 net nights per 0.5 km2 of suitable summer habitat, with a maximum of three consecutive nights at any given location (USFWS 2015).;Although useful, capturing bats is not generally recommended for either pre or postconstruction monitoring at wind farms because (1) not all proposed sites offer suitable mistnetting locations, (2) capture efforts are often focused at water sources or nearby roosts and the results may not reflect bat presence or use of a site, and (3) mistnetting is not feasible at the height of the rotor swept zone and captures below that may not adequately reflect the risk of fatality (USFWS 2012). However, it is recommended when a species of concern is likely to be present or difficult to identify with acoustic detectors, or if a wind farm is proposed in a forest habitat (USFWS 2012 Rodrigues et al. 2015). Other research tools should be used to complement the information collected from mistnetting. For example, acoustic detectors used in conjunction with mist netting may offer a more complete approach to determine the presence of a particular species of interest (Kuenzi  Morrison 1998).;Radiotracking bats is labour intensive and expensive, and typically only required if certain habitat conditions exist (Rodrigues et al. 2015), or if an imperiled species is presumed present at a site and knowledge of their flight direction upon exiting a roost and habitat use is necessary to inform turbine or project siting (USFWS 2012). Over short periods such as 34 weeks, tracking bats can be accomplished using very highfrequency (VHF) transmitters. If enough individual bats are tagged, tracking can provide insight on a species foraging (Murray  Kurta 2004 Bonacorrso et al. 2015), and roosting (Hein et al. 2009) habitat, which may be useful in avoiding certain areas, or limiting habitat alteration during development of a wind farm. If roosts are located, surveys may be necessary to determine the size of the colony and the behaviour and activity patterns of bats as they emerge (see Roost surveys and exit counts, below). Seasonal movements of bats also can be ascertained