Whereas use surveys serve to indicate relative abundance, theyare unsuitable for quantifying behaviour patterns other than whether each bird is flying or perching. What ecologists need to know is how often members of each bird species perform specific behaviours suspected to result in wind turbine collisions, such as kiting, hovering (Figure 1.2), gliding, contouring, attacking prey, chasing competitors, fleeing conspecifics or predators, courtship display, and play or combat. Ecologists need to know how these behaviours relate to specific wind conditions and terrain features. Behaviour patterns that are relevant to collision may prove more stable than a species relative abundance through seasons and years, because behaviours critical to survival are controlled by neurons built early during ontogeny to ensure stability through evolutionary timescales (Coss  Goldthwaite 1995), whereas relative abundance typically shifts spatially every generation or so as a result of (1) depletion of local food resources, (2) the need to escape predator or parasite loads, (3) congregation of dispersing young while natal populations senesce, or (4) a combination of these or other factors (Taylor  Taylor 1979). Should additional research find that behaviours associated with collision risk are more stable than relative abundance, then the cost and duration of preconstruction surveys may lessen and prediction accuracy may improve by shifting from use surveys to behaviour surveys.;The drive towards standardisation can constrain the understanding of collision factors by narrowing survey coverage. For example, relying solely on diurnal use surveys for the purpose of quantifying use rates can miss crepuscular or nocturnal avian behaviours susceptible to collision. For years it was argued that most Burrowing Owl fatalities in the APWRA were due to predation because Burrowing Owls observed during diurnal surveys perch by their burrows and rarely fly high enough to be struck by wind turbine blades. By surveying at twilight and after dark with a thermal camera, Burrowing Owls were observed hovering for long periods under and next to operating wind turbines at rotor height (Figure 1.2). Another surprise was watching one collide with the nacelle of a broken wind turbine during a night flight. Unless surveys are conducted at all times of day and night, incorrect notions of collision risk will persist and will interfere with the formulation of sound mitigation strategies.