Collision risk modelling and population viability analysis were undertaken as part of environmental impact assessment for Stockyard Hill Wind Farm, proposed by Origin Energy. In 2009, the project was planned to consist of 242 turbines. Two options for the size of turbines were under consideration. Collision risk was assessed using the Biosis model for each of the two turbines and to account for different numbers of flights for the three components of the species annual cycle the breeding season, theflocking season, and the periods in which birds move between breeding and flocking locations. It was considered likely that the average population that might interact with the wind farm during the breeding season would comprise of 12 adults and their annual cohort of fledged juveniles, and once in every 5 years, an average of 40 birds might do so during flocking. Collision risk estimates for the smaller turbines at 95 to 99 avoidance rates ranged from 0.03 to 0.08 Brolga collisions per annum. At the same, estimated avoidance rates for the larger turbine ranged from 0.03 to 0.10 collisions per annum.;Figure 3.4 An adult Brolga Antigone rubicunda, a species for which collision risk modelling and a specific population viability analysis have been used to assess potential effects of collisions with wind turbines. (Kailash Willis);While not all demographic values for the population are known precisely, the population is small and discrete, adult life expectancy may exceed 20 years, and fecundity and survivorship rates can be estimated with reasonable precision. This has permitted a specific population viability analysis to be developed by the University of Melbourne to evaluate impacts on the Victorian Brolga population (Michael McCarthy, personal communication 2011). Parameter values derived from demographic information for the population included annual adult survivorship (s) of 0.976, fecundity (f) of 0.025, and ratio of immature to mature birds (R) of 0.05. The model included a densitydependent function.