Collision risk modelling has generally been applied on a whole wind farm basis, assuming that utilisation of the site by a given species is uniform and that all turbines represent equal risk. This simplification is substantially a result of limitations in data collection, and where bird use is likely to vary across a large site owing to different vegetation, land use, topography, air currents or proximity to key resources, a more sophisticated method may be relevant. Intrasite mapping or modelling of differing bird utilisationrates can be used in collision risk modelling to evaluate variable rates of risk, but this approach is likely to require large and long term sets of data. Eichhorn et al. (2012) used such a spatially explicit approach to investigate how collision risk may depend on the distance between wind turbines and nest sites of Red Kite Milvus milvus at wind farms in West Saxony, Germany.;Few projections of collision risk models have been validated by rigorously comparing them with empirical experience of operational wind farms. It seems that this situation results from a regulatory context in many jurisdictions whereby collision risk modelling is undertaken as a prerequisite to a consent decision, but once consent has been granted little further consideration is given to its estimates. Since such validation is the real test of the performance of models, it would be the most informative means to compare the various collision risk models and to ensure their future refinement.;The PROGRESS project (funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy) involving 47 wind farms in Germany, undertaken between 2011 and 2014, is the largest known effort to compare real collision numbers with those predicted by collision risk modelling (using the Band model), and analyses of its data are underway at the time of writing (Weitekamp et al. 2015). Available examples of validation are Whitfield (2009), who compared estimates of the Band collision risk model for Golden Eagles with the results of carcass searches undertaken at four wind farms in the USA, and Smales et al. (2013), who compared estimates provided by the Biosis collision risk model for Tasmanian Wedge tailed Eagle and Whitebellied Seaeagle Haliaeetus leucogaster with deaths actually detected over a number of years at two wind farms (Box 3.1). Both investigations used the derived method to determine microavoidance rates (see Avoidance rates, above) and, since that process is largely a modeladjustment exercise, it might be argued that an avoidance rate that best fits the case has been applied post hoc. However, it is notable that despite a degree of uncertainty, the numbers of mortalities that actually occurred at the wind farms studied were within the range (i.e. 0.95 microavoidance rate) of estimates provided by collision risk modelling.