The extents of collision, disturbance and barrier effects depend on a species tolerance of disturbance and its behavioural plasticity in adapting to the perceived risk from wind turbines. For instance, Garthe and Hppop (2004) and Furness et al. (2013) assessed the vulnerability of seabirds to offshore wind turbines, incorporating speciesspecific factors. Birds may, however, manage this risk through avoidance, activity shifts or changed habitat utilisation in the form of displacement (May 2015). The interplay of a species sensory faculties, behaviour and aerodynamic capabilities determines the extent to which it copes with the presence of wind turbines. Speciesspecific sensory faculties may limit the ability to detect a wind turbine in due time (Martin et al. 2012). A birds behavioural attention to its surroundings and consequent risk perception may depend on the possibilities for associating wind turbines with risk (de Lucas et al. 2008 Smallwood et al. 2009b Dahl et al. 2013). Last but not least, a bird may only evade perceived risk when its aerodynamic, locomotive physiology enables it to do so in due time (see Bevanger 1998 for the related response of birds to power lines). The extent of a birds response towards wind turbines may also vary both in space and in time and be influenced by behavioural patterns, wind and topography, and turbine operational state (Marques et al. 2014). The expected efficacy of pre and post construction mitigation measures for windturbine induced impacts on birds can thus be expected to be species specific with regard to audible, optical and biomechanical constraints and options (May et al. 2015). The spatial scale at which responses are most pronounced may further aid selection of mitigation options. Here, three spatial scales may be distinguished. Birds may (1) avoid the wind farm area as a whole as macroavoidance, (2) avoid turbine arrays or single wind turbines as mesoavoidance, and (3) practise lastsecond evasion of the rotor blades as micro avoidance (May 2015). To be able to identify and construct functional mitigation measures for a target bird species at a specific site, all of these aspects need to be taken into account. Still, there are reasons to believe that some nocure bird species may be averse to any mitigation option (May et al. 2015).