Hull and Muir (2010) explored the use of ballistics models to predict the fall distribution of carcasses of different sizes at turbines with differing hub heights and blade lengths. Huso and Dalthorp (2014) proposed fitting parametric models to observed carcasses, accounting for differences in detectability due to vegetation and size. While parametric models can often capture the general densitypattern as well as anisotropy, they require a fairly large number of observed fall locations (at least 50 observations at one or a composite of several turbines at a site), some of which must be close to the limits of the maximum fall distance to accurately capture the full pattern. When data are insufficient, Huso and Dalthorp (2014) showed that models that assume a linear decrease in density with distance, out to a maximum value determined using Hull and Muirs (2010) models, far outperform the simple ratio, but can nevertheless still have some bias.;Because in most cases the search area itself is known with little error, as it is measured using a geographic information system (GIS), it is the estimation of the spatial distribution of the carcasses in the study plots, and from this the proportion expected to fall within the searched area, that is estimated with uncertainty. How the variance of  is estimated depends on the method used to estimate a. Variances of estimates that are derived parameters of a parametric model (e.g. Huso  Dalthorp 2014) may be obtained analytically by using the variancecovariance matrix of the parameter estimates, while bootstrapping (Efron  Tibshirani 1986 Efron 1987) may be useful for nonparametric methods. However, in many studies, small sample size precludes precise estimation of a.;Sensitivity analyses can be used to assess how much the final fatality estimate is influenced by the different assumptions about a. This factor can strongly affect ultimate estimates per turbine of wind farmwide fatality and is essential to calculating estimates of fatality that can be compared across sites (Huso  Dalthorp 2014). Many studies have attempted to compare fatality rates across regions yet the rates used in the comparison rarely account for the different plot sizes. For example, plot sizes in studies compared by Erickson et al. (2014) ranged from 50 m radius to 100 m, yet no adjustment was made for the proportion of carcasses expected to fall outside the searched area.;Knowledge of the relationship of carcass density to distance from a turbine can perhaps be exploited to allow efficient search on roads and pads and other areas nearer the turbine in which both the density of the carcasses and the searcher efficiency is expected to be highest. Managers would only need to estimate total fatality in this easily searched area and then adjust this number by the proportion of carcasses expected to fall in the area. Huso and Dalthorp (2014) showed that this approach could result in unbiased estimates with variance comparable to those based on far more extensive searches. However, when the objective of the study is to ensure that the fatality of a species of special concern did not exceed some small