The first objective of this chapter is to describe the steps leading to the production of mapbased collision hazard models intended for guiding the siting of new wind turbines. In support of this first objective, the collection and analysis of avian behaviour data and of fatality data from monitoring at the old wind turbines, the development of a digital elevation model (DEM), the integration of the information for model development using a fuzzy logic (FL)approach (Tanaka 1997), and how the models were implemented, are all described. The second objective is to test the models using two approaches, one at each of two repowered projects. Model validation at the repowered Buena Vista wind project compares fatality rates among the 1 MW turbines, the siting of which was naive to model predictions of collision hazard because it preceded model development. Model validation at the Vasco Winds project compares projectwide fatality rates before and after repowering because the repowered turbines had been sited to avoid locations predicted to be hazardous and therefore lacked variation in fatality rates across the full range of collision hazard predictions.;The primary study goal was to carefully site new wind turbines as part of repowering to minimise raptor encounters with wind turbines while in flight, but most especially while performing specific types of flight behaviours, such as low flights crossing ridge like topographic features in the case of Golden Eagles and hovering or kiting in the case of Redtailed Hawks Buteo jamaicensis. The secondary goal was to improve our understanding of raptor collisions to enable the development of a practical methodology for carefully siting wind turbines at new and repowering wind projects worldwide. These goals required the collection, integration and analysis of multiple types of data, and along the way data were replaced with those that were found to be more predictive. For example, initially, use data were related to measured terrain attributes, but the ontheminute recording of these data proved too infrequent for identifying strong associations between terrain features and all flight behaviours other than kiting and hovering, which are relatively stationary and can be counted at the same location multiple times during a survey. Therefore, at the beginning in 2012, monitoring switched to recording behaviours at more points along flight paths of individual birds to emphasise behaviour over counts. As a consequence, the importance of social and inter specific interactions in wind turbine collision risk began to be recognised, leading to improved understanding of how birds interact with wind turbines.;An FL approach to develop predictive models from behaviour data, fatality data and measured terrain attributes was selected. The FL approach is a rulebased system useful with noisy data or with zerodominated data sets, and is applied to events occurring within classes that are assumed to have graduated rather than sharp boundaries. The rules consist of assigning likelihood values of an event occurring, which in the case of this study would be the likelihood of a bird performing a specific behaviour within a cell of