Fatality monitoring is the primary method used to assess the direct impact of wind farm development on bats, by providing fatality estimates and detailing the demographic composition of fatalities. It can be used to validate sitespecific preconstruction risk assessments and offer insight on risk associated with particular habitat types or to bat populations at local, regional or larger scales. Researchers also should take advantage of recovered carcasses andcollect tissue and hair samples for genetic and stable isotope analyses (Voigt et al. 2012 Baerwald et al. 2014 Lehnert et al. 2014).;Experimental designs and methods for conducting fatality searches are well established and can yield reliable estimates of fatality, if performed correctly (Strickland et al. 2011 USFWS 2012 PGC 2013 Rodrigues et al. 2015). By standardising protocols for fatality searches, comparable estimates can be achieved and be useful for understanding different levels of risk. Factors to consider when developing a study design include the number of turbines, the search interval, and plot characteristics including size, transect width and vegetation type. It is important to be aware that the number of carcasses found does not equate to the number of bats killed (Rodrigues et al. 2015). Thus, accounting for biases in field sampling, especially searcher efficiency, carcass removal and densityweighted proportion of fatalities, is essential. This requires careful consideration and an understanding of the assumptions inherent in the different fatality estimators available for use (Huso 2010 Bispo et al. 2013 Bernadino et al. 2013 KornerNievergelt et al. 2013 see Chapter 14 in this volume).;Protocols for conducting postconstruction fatality monitoring may vary on specifics, but in general provide similar guidance (USFWS 2012 PGC 2013 Rodrigues et al. 2015) (Table 2.2). The turbines to be searched should be representative of the entire project area. As a minimum, ten turbines or 20 of the turbines should be searched, whichever is greater. Alternatively, if the wind farm has fewer than ten turbines, then all turbines should be searched. Monitoring should commence soon after the wind farm is operational and continue for 13 years. Search intensity should be based, in part, on the carcass persistence, which can be interpreted from nearby sites or sites with similar conditions. To estimate fatality, daily carcass searches are not necessary, but may help in recovering more fresh bats and relating fatality to weather and operational conditions from the previous night. Estimates of fatality must incorporate biases associated with carcasses searches, specifically searcher efficiency, carcass persistence and the density weighted proportion of carcasses within the search plot.;Humans conduct most fatality monitoring, but the olfactory capabilities of dogs may improve the efficiency of carcass searches, particularly in dense vegetation (Homan et al. 2001). Arnett (2006) used Labrador retrievers to assess the ability of doghandler teams to recover dead bats during fatality searches at two wind farms, and reported 71 and 81 searcher efficiency compared to 42 and