Adaptive management relies on scientifically rigorous monitoring of the effects upon target species or habitats, for example monitoring collision of birds, fatality monitoring of bats to ensure that the numbers killed are below a particular predetermined level (see Box 4.3 in Chapter 4 in this volume), or perhaps the spread of alien flora, which can then be systematically removed once the site is complete (see Box 3.3 in Volume 1, Chapter 3). It is, however, essential that the monitoring tools selected are fit for purpose. This may require reevaluation of the techniques available. For example, visual use surveys have been a standard to describe the use of a site by birds, particularly in the planning and preconstruction phase, but also during postconstruction monitoring. As detailed in Chapter 1 of this volume, preconstruction use surveys have largely proven to be inadequate in describing postconstruction fatality (see also Ferrer et al. 2012). This may be for a number of reasons, including that use surveys over a wide area did not explicitly provide passagedata for the area where a turbine was subsequently located, or that use surveys were conducted during the day and it was crepuscular or nocturnal species that proved to be the most prevalent collision victims (see Chapter 1 of this volume). In general, there is a call for behaviour surveys focused on the location of risky behaviour likely to lead to collision, or more specific sampling of turbine locations by directed scans, radar, cameras (including thermal cameras at night) or individualbased telemetry. The current monitoring of bats recommends the use of multiple techniques to sample the range of species present, especially those at collision risk height, as well as to understand behaviour that leads to collision (Box 2.1 in Chapter 2 of this volume).;The number of monitoring tools available has expanded rapidly as technological advances have been made and the costs of sophisticated electronic equipment have reduced. Advances in software and enhanced computing power have also allowed more sophisticated analyses of telemetry data, as in the case of Reid et al. (2015), who developed habitat use models for Bearded Vulture Gypaetus barbatus in South Africa in order to illustrate the potential risk of two operational wind farms. One of these sites proved to be in the areas most heavily used by nonadult Bearded Vultures, resulting in potential conflict. Similarly, fuzzy logic models incorporating habitat attributes from a digital elevation model handled within a geographic information system (GIS) were developed to inform repowering of parts of the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area in California, USA (see Chapter 7 of this volume). Such techniques can further inform effective mitigation strategies. Furthermore, with known passage rates, collision rates can be estimated using collision risk modelling, with the population consequences of the loss of individuals predicted from a variety of population modelling techniques (see Chapter 5 of this volume).;The population consequences of the loss of individuals may also be investigated by intensive individualbased monitoring, such as that undertaken for Whitetailed Eagle Halieeatus albicilla on Smla in Norway (see Box 8.4 in Volume 1, Chapter 8). Here, survival rates for both subadults and adult birds originating close to the turbines (5 km) are lower than those from farther away. In combination with reduced reproductive output, a reduction in the survival rate has led to a reduction in the population growth rate. Such painstaking research will need to be repeated for other vulnerable species for this to feed back into adaptive management.