The first step in understanding the impact on a population or species is accurate estimation of turbinecaused fatality at a site or region over a specified period from observed carcass counts. Fatality monitoring studies generally comprise two components the protocol used to search for and count carcasses and the protocol used to estimate detection probability of each carcass. Subsequently, estimated detection probability is used to extrapolate observed carcass counts to estimate total fatality. These two components are deeply intertwined, as the areal extent and configuration as well as frequency of searches affect detection probability, and knowledge of factors affecting detection probability informs the search protocol. Accurate estimates of detection probability will result in unbiased estimates of fatality, and higherand more precise estimates of detection probability will result in more precise estimates of fatality. It should be noted, however, that even complete knowledge of detection probability will not remove uncertainty from estimates of fatality. Consider an analogy each fatality is the roll of a die and the probability of observing the carcass is the probability of rolling a 1. The statistical challenge lies in determining how many times the die was rolled (i.e. how many actual fatalities there are) from knowledge of the number of 1s observed (i.e. the carcass count) and the probability of observing a 1 (i.e. the estimated probability of detection). It is intuitively obvious that knowing three 1s were observed does not guarantee knowledge of how many rolls were made. It is possible, although rather unlikely, that the die was rolled only three times. It is also possible, but equally as unlikely, that it was rolled 40 or more times. The most likely values for the number of rolls lie somewhere in between, but we cannot say exactly how many times the die was rolled. In other words, complete knowledge of the probability of detecting a carcass will not provide complete knowledge of the number of animals killed. However, as detection probability increases, uncertainty in estimates of actual fatality will decrease (Huso et al. 2015). A further difficulty lies in estimating the actual fatality rate of species whose occurrence among wind farm casualties is expected to be low, that is, species whose populations are identified as being at risk either locally or globally, yet for which precise estimates of fatality are needed for their longterm management. Unless detection probability is high, observing no carcasses cannot be interpreted as evidence that none or few have been killed (Huso et al. 2015). In such cases, the objective of monitoring is focused on achieving a probability of detection high enough to provide a reasonable level of certainty that the number of fatalities has not exceeded a specific threshold when zero or few carcasses are found (Dalthorp et al. 2014 Dalthorp  Huso 2015).;This chapter describes statistical methods that combine data from detection probability models and observed carcass counts to provide unbiased estimates of the total number of bird andor bat fatalities having occurred at a site over a specific, usually extensive, period of time. In the first three themes, three major sources of imperfect detection of carcasses and the influence of the accuracy and precision of estimated detection parameters on the ultimate accuracy and precision of fatality estimates are described. In the