Much effort has been directed towards impact assessments of proposed wind farms, where the assessments are needed to predict and minimise collision impacts caused by wind turbines. It has been long suspected that areas with higher bird activity pose a greater collision risk and, given local wind patterns, turbines on certain terrain features pose a disproportionate collision risk. Macro and micrositing is critical, so preconstruction surveys would also ideally inform siting. To this end, baseline studies have most commonly used diurnal visual scans to estimate use rates.;The review of North American baseline studies using diurnal surveys identified a number of issues, which translated into a series of recommendations for future studies. In general, study area coverage was good, with an average around 73, but the spatial grain of survey stations was rather coarse. Although overlap of survey plots was generally low, it ranged up to 25, meaning that not all observations in all cases could be considered to be independent. Survey effort averaged less than 2 minutes per hectare, and generally lasted long enough to mostly detect the common species, but most probably not all of the species at risk of collision or of greatest conservation concern. Nocturnal use was not recorded, even though this use may be the most hazardous around wind turbines. Surveys were not standardised to time of day or seasonal representation, and although some studies incorporated all seasons over several years, the average study duration was low, at only 8 months and 22 days. Use survey efforts declined with increasing wind farm size, while use rates tended to increase with the duration of survey sessions and the intensity of survey effort per hour per hectare. Attempts to quantify or adjust for variation in the duration of survey sessions should be made in the future. Observer effects are also likely to bias survey results, and these should also be quantified and steps taken to minimise any effects. The influence of the number of target species included in the surveys and its impact on use rates also warrants further investigation.;Data from the APWRA were used to clearly illustrate the effect of the variation in the visible volume of airspace among survey stations and wind farms, and that use rates must be adjusted accordingly. Bird detection rates decline with distance from the observer, and speciesspecific distance sampling protocols and appropriate analytical software, if applicable to flying moving targets, should be utilised. Efforts should also be made to adjust for variation in detection rates of birds during use surveys due to sex, behaviour, ground speed, terrain and vegetation cover. The proportion of the surveyed airspace that is sky versus terrain