This operational mitigation method is based on standardised acoustic data acquisition (usually during at least 2 years after construction of turbines), data analysis and risk assessment. Turbinespecific cutin wind speeds are used to reduce the number of bat collisions. Below the cutin windspeed, the rotorsare feathered and do not move at all or at a low speed. The cutin wind speed and, consequently, time of turbine shutdown, depend on the turbinespecific level of bat activity, month and time of night determining collision risk (Behr et al. 2011b). Cutin wind speeds are calculated so as to keep the expected total number of fatalities per year and turbine below a threshold defined by the regulatory requirements, with a minimum loss in energy production. Times with high collision risk and low energy yield are then chosen for curtailment. In batfriendly operation, current wind speed is compared to cutin windspeed defined by the algorithm for each tenminute interval during each night of the mitigation period, usually 1 April to 31 October, and the turbine blades are then feathered or set to normal operation accordingly. In 2012, the operational mitigation was successfully tested at 16 turbines at 8 sites in different geographic regions in Germany, reducing the fatality rate from an average of 12 dead bats per turbine per year to a target value of 2 bat fatalities per turbine per year.;The software tool, ProBat (www.windbat.techfak.fau.de), was developed to allow for simple calculations of turbinespecific collision risk and corresponding batfriendly operational algorithms from data on wind speed and acoustic bat activity (one of three different detector types can be used Anabat from Titley Scientific, Batcorder from ecoObs, and BATmode from AvisoftBAT). The application of the tool in its current form is geographically restricted by the species of bats represented in Brinkmann et al. (2011) and to some extent by the technical specifications of turbines sampled. The tool does, however, correct for different rotor diameters.;The methods proposed in Brinkmann et al. (2011) have been set as standard risk assessment and mitigation in several federal states in Germany and are the mitigation measure most commonly used to counteract bat collisions at wind turbines in Germany. Considering their ability to precisely reduce bat fatalities for minimal loss in revenue, modelbased curtailment algorithms have strong potential as a tool in bat conservation in Germany and other areas of the world.