Some regulatory agencies in the USA and Canada have set thresholds for mitigation of bat fatalities that employ an average number of bats killed that, once reached, triggers an action. In the state of Pennsylvania and the Canadian province of Ontario, thresholds for initiating curtailment were set based on the annual mean number of bats killed per turbine (28 per turbine in Pennsylvania and 10 per turbine in Ontario) (Arnett et al. 2013a). This approach sets a dangerous precedent and has several flaws, not the least of which is the assumption that bat populations are currently stable and will remain so (Arnett et al. 2013a). Also, setting such triggers ignores the expanding development of wind farms leading to increasing numbers of bat fatalities per population or region. Wind turbines are one of many threats to bats, and assessments are needed to determine the effects of turbines acting in combination with other factors such as habitat loss and disease. Until such assessments and population data are available, Arnett et al. (2013a) suggest that stakeholders should collaborate on a site bysite basis to implement a mitigation strategy that meets objectives for both conservation and industry. For example, once agoal has been agreed to reduce bat fatalities by, say, 50, then companies can develop the best operational minimisation approach to implement at their site to meet that goal. Changes in bat activity levels could be considered as a trigger for intervention, rather than waiting for the demonstration that casualties are occurring. Such an approach could be particularly important where rare species are threatened and even low fatality rates may have important impacts on populations (Arnett et al. 2013a 2015).;Bat fatalities at wind facilities are a global issue and avoiding or minimising these fatalities is critically important to both bat conservation and public acceptance of wind farm development. Increasing cutin speed by between 1.5 and 3.0 metres per second or feathering blades and slowing rotor speed up to the turbine manufacturers cutin speed yields substantial reductions in fatality of bats. Future operational mitigation studies should focus on determining which factors, including habitat, insect occurrence, temperature, wind, humidity and moon illumination, or combination of factors (Weller  Baldwin 2011), will best improve predictability of bat fatalities and when to employ minimisation strategies, while minimising economic costs. Testing algorithms similar to those described here by KornerNievergelt et al. (2013), in other regions and among different turbines types and species of bats is also warranted.;Unfortunately, population data are lacking for most bats worldwide (OShea et al. 2003), including species at highest risk from wind turbines. This not only impedes our understanding of the actual impacts of wind turbines, but also limits understanding of the effectiveness of mitigation efforts. For example, is a 50 reduction in bat fatalities from raising turbine cutin speed adequate to mitigate populationlevel impacts or simply delaying the inevitable? A lack of population data also makes it difficult to set thresholds for mitigation (but see above and Arnett et al. 2013a). Population data are not likely to be available for most bat species in the near future and thus wind operators should practise the precautionary principle and avoid highrisk sites and implement operational minimisation measures at sites where bat fatalities are known or are predicted to be high (Arnett  Baerwald 2013 Arnett et al. 2015).