The Band model accounts only for the danger posed by moving rotor blades and not for other turbine components. For many species and most locations it is likely that rotors represent the greatest risk however, some birds that rarely fly at rotor height are known to fatally strike turbine towers. A notable example is the Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus variegatus at the Smla wind farm (Hans Christian Pedersen, personal communication 2011). The capacity to differentiate levels of risk associated with different turbine components is intrinsic to the Biosis and Hamer collisionrisk models.;It is an underlying assumption of most of the collision risk models that a given bird flight will pass through the entire wind farm and hence may encounter multiple turbines. Since the majority of species of concern at many sites are large birds that either have large home ranges or are on transit through a site, this is a reasonable assumption for such situations. In most of the models, flight paths are conceived as straight lines. In many instances this will be a simplification of reality and models that encompass variation in flight path routes will more closely represent reality.;The number of turbines that may be encountered by a given flight can be expected to differ between a wind farm consisting of a single row of turbines and one in which turbines are scattered in the landscape. For multiple random flights through a wind farm with a scattered turbine array, Biosis used the square root of the total number of turbines (Hydro Electric Corporation 2004).;Most of the collision risk models incorporate some variant of Tuckers (1996) kinematic approach in modelling the outcome of a bird interacting with a turbine. The USFWS (2011) model takes a different approach and bases this probability on prior empirical experience of the rates of collisions that have been documented for the species of interest at existing wind farms. Reliance on previous empirical collision data appears to be a sound approach. However, much care will be required to evaluate the applicability of data from disparate wind farms to the one under consideration to ensure that methods used to determine mortality rates from various sites are truly comparable, and especially because those methods are themselves estimates that usually have large confidence intervals (see discussion of derived avoidance rates under Avoidance rates, below).;It is vital that metrics used in any mathematical model are clearly defined and unambiguous. It is also a fundamental rule of logic that input and output metric parameters must not differ. Unfortunately, this does not appear to be the case with some of the collision risk