Raptor nest counts are common in baseline studies, often due to agency guidelines or pressure from natural resource agencies. Raptor nests are typically mapped within the proposed wind farm and adjoining buffered area (the scale of buffers varies). However, no relationship has yet been demonstrated between fatality rates and nesting density, nor is there any test of the effectiveness of how large a buffer should be used for raptor nest counts. There may exist a relationship between fatality rates and nest density, but species specific tests are needed. Postconstruction nest counts have also been performed to relate nesting success of Dickcissel Spiza americana with distance from wind turbines (Hatchet et al. 2013), and to estimate the breeding population of Burrowing Owl Athene cunicularia within a wind farm so that collision fatality rates can be related to population size (Smallwood et al. 2013). Dahl et al. (2012) found reduced breeding success of Whitetailed Eagles following wind farm development by relying on a beforeaftercontrolimpact (BACI) experimental design, indicating that nest counts in the context of experimental design can be particularly useful.;Pedestrian surveys along transects have been used to establish baseline breeding pair densities and distributions before construction and against which the results of postconstruction surveys can be compared (Kerlinger  Curry 2000). Some of these surveys were performed only after the wind turbines were installed (e.g. Leddy et al. 1999 PearceHiggins et al. 2009). However, PearceHiggins et al. (2012) compared transect survey results between wind farm and reference sites before, during and after construction, revealing that grassland bird densities declined significantly during construction. Transect surveys performed in BACI designs can measure displacement, and if they are performed often enough and at a spatial grain suitable for relating relative abundance to wind turbines or wind farms, then they may prove useful for predicting collision fatalities of some species.;Assessments of proposed wind farms are needed to decide whether sites are suitable and whether wind turbines can be sited to minimise collision risk to birds and bats in general or to species of concern. Such assessments can be made at three levels of resolution, comprising screening, macroassessment and microassessment. A screeninglevel assessment is used to determine whether a proposed wind farm is likely to cause disproportionate impacts and whether further exploration of the development is worth the cost. A macro level assessment is used to predict fatality rates or displacement at proposed wind farms, again to decide whether wind farm development should be pursued further. A microlevel assessment is used to predict fatality rates at proposed wind turbine locations within a wind farm so that impacts can be minimised.;At the screening level, the likelihood of species occurring at a wind farm can be assessed by overlaying the proposed wind farm boundary on to maps of species geographic range and vegetation cover and comparing the cover to documented habitat associations of the species. Additional indicators include morphological and ecological factors associated with species susceptibility to wind farm impacts. Likely assessment outcomes include determinations