If analysts incorrectly assume that k is 1, that is, the searcher efficiency does not change with time, the consequences will be minimal for visibility classes in which searcher efficiency is very high however, they will be highly influential, leading to underestimates of fatality, where searcher efficiency is low. Withhigh persistence and frequent searches, this assumption of constant p results in a probability near 1 of a carcass eventually being found, which is unrealistic in many situations. When searcher efficiency is low, larger numbers of carcasses are overlooked and may be found at a later search, that is, their detectability is more affected by k. On the other hand, if k is incorrectly assumed to be 0, then fatality rates will be systematically overestimated, although the effect can be negated by counting only those carcasses that arrived after the previous search, essentially forcing k to be 0 through the monitoring protocol.;In general, little is known about likely values of k in given situations, but work by Schirmacher and colleagues (personal communication) suggests that for bat searches at oneday intervals, k was approximately 0.67 over a range of visibility classes in the northeastern USA (Box 4.2). This suggests that for bats, k may be constant across visibility classes, justifying the simplifying assumption of constant proportional decrease in searcher efficiency with each successive search and obviating the need to estimate k from field data.;Searcher efficiency is intuitively expected to drop on progressively on each search, primarily owing to selective removal of the most readily observable carcasses with each search, and to ageing carcasses that become increasingly difficult to observe (WarrenHicks et al. 2013) as they decay and become covered with dust and debris.;In a searcher efficiency study at four sites in the northeastern USA, researchers placed 1,288 trial carcasses (between 46 and 361 per site) in search plots at various times throughout the search season for discovery by monitoring teams searching on a daily basis. Search plots were subdivided into four visibility classes (easy, moderate, difficult and very difficult) depending on vegetative cover (see Arnett et al. 2009 for definitions). Trials were conducted for 13 years at each site. Carcasses that were not discovered on the first search after carcass placement were left in the field for possible detection during later searches. Carcasses were tracked for up to 20 searches and results recorded for four visibility classes in the field. Searcher efficiency in the very