Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) (2000) produced the first collision risk model to be made publicly available. Band et al. (2007) published a fuller explanation of the model, generally known as the Band model. Band (2012) provides an updated version for offshore wind farms, where bird passage rate is derived from density data and estimated flight speed and distance across the wind farm. The model functions in two stages. The first stage, derived from field data, addresses the number of bird flights that may encounter the rotor of a turbine. The second stage deals with the probability of a bird surviving the mechanics of an encounter with the rotor. This component allows for flights only from directly upwind or downwind of the rotor plane, and the model does not incorporate capacity for birds to avoid collisions, but its authors acknowledge the requirement for an avoidance rate to be applied in order to calculate a realistic collision estimate. SNH (2010) provided guidance for avoidance rates and their application. In the original Band model (SNH 2000 Band et al. 2007), the number of turbines that may be encountered per flight appeared to be calculated as an arbitrary value based on the concept of each flight passing through the turbine array in a single direction. Band (2012) provided refinement and an explanatory derivation for determining this value. Overall, the Band collision risk model has been the most widely used.;A collision risk model prepared by Podolsky (2005) was subsequently described in detail in a US patent (Podolsky 2008). This model incorporates a number of refinements on the Tucker model in dealing with the mechanical interaction between a bird and a turbine rotor, including capacity for bird flights to intersect with the rotor plane from any angle and to account for different flight speeds. It also includes potential for collisions to occur with the turbine tower, but not the nacelle or hub. The model allows for birds to avoid or be attracted to turbines. Potential for collisions with multiple turbines is incorporated by computing the cumulative probability of a bird colliding with successive turbines as it flies on a line through the wind farm.