It is clear that the definition of effects and effect pathways may be complex. For example, habitat loss typically refers to the area buried under turbines and their supporting pads, substations or other buildings or access roads, or refers to the removal of vegetation including trees (see Volume 1, Chapter 3). But an entire wind farm supporting an otherwise largely unimpacted suite of habitats may be lost to a species that is unwilling to enter the array through fear of structures, vehicles or humans. In addition, the habitats within a wind farm may become disconnected and fragmented for that species. In many cases, however, this situation may not persist through time as animals become habituated (see Volume 1, Chapters 7 for birds and 10 for mammals). Birds and bats, species groups that are seen to be particularly vulnerable to wind energy development, have been the subject of a vast number of studies in the peerreviewed and grey literature. It is no coincidence that Volume 1, Chapters 7, 8 and 9 are among the most extensive in this volume. But whereas research on other faunal groups, including terrestrial invertebrates (Volume 1, Chapter 4), reptiles and amphibians (Volume 1, Chapter 6) and nonflying mammals (Volume 1, Chapter 10), has generally been sparse, it seems the impacts upon these groups may also be significant, although these remain largely untested or speculative, notwithstanding that any speculation is based on a thorough understanding of ecological principles and interactions.;In other words, there is growing awareness of the potential and actual impacts of indirect effects. For example, largescale habitat modification such as vegetation removal (see Volume 1, Chapter 3) may interfere with natural geomorphology and hydrology, with consequences not only for terrestrial flora and fauna but also for watercourses and their dependent wildlife, including fish (Volume 1, Chapter 5). Even subtle changes in habitat conditions may favour shifts in competitive balance (see Volume 1, Chapter 3), as may the changes in microclimate within wind farms (Volume 1, Chapter 2). Habitat fragmentation, for example as a result of roads, may change ecological functioning and interfere with biological processes such as gene flow through