After bird impacts have been addressed sequentially during the planning, design and construction phases, residual impacts may be compensated for during the operational phase of a wind farm. Compensation of residual impacts means achieving no net loss, or even net gain (Gardner et al. 2013). Determining what no net loss entails will be critical in assessing how wind energy deployment can be reconciled with nature conservation laws, directives and policy (Cole 2011). In the first instance, compensation for residual impacts may be a scientific question related to the population dynamics ofthe species concerned and the level of additional mortality (either directly through collisions or indirectly owing to increased energy expenditure through barrier effects) or habitat loss (through displacement leading to, for example, reduced breeding sites or foraging patches) that can be sustained. For protected species, however, this may become a legal issue if it can be shown the population is significantly affected. As decisions regarding wind energy deployment are sociopolitical in nature, decisions for offsetting environmental impacts to an acceptable level may also become a legal question (Qutier  Lavorel 2011). May we allow for a certain acceptable level of residual impact since wind farms contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions as green versus green? Balancing both positive and negative, and partially uncertain, socioeconomic and environmental impacts of wind energy deployment can be achieved by proper planning and deliberation and by emphasising the hidden transaction and opportunity costs (i.e. lost benefit) associated with wind energy deployment. Methods for scaling compensation, such as equivalency analysis, are based on a (nonmonetary) valuation assessment of the costs that society is willing to pay to offset environmental impacts due to wind energy deployment (Cole 2011 Qutier  Lavorel 2011). The temporal dynamics in assessing ecological equivalence are of importance here. Depending on the most appropriate baseline for calculating losses and gains, there may be a delay between when losses occur and when gains are made (McKenney  Kiesecker 2010 Qutier  Lavorel 2011). This may occur, for example, when degraded habitat within a wind farm is compensated for by enhancing habitat outside the wind farm, which may take many decades to accomplish, and extend the lifespan of the wind farm. Habitat enhancement may refer to both creating and restoring habitat elsewhere, including augmenting productivity and relieving the species of concern from other pressures such as predation and persecution. From this perspective, compensation offsets may need to be in place before rather than after construction, to gain time. To compensate for the potential Golden Eagle habitat loss and collision risk resulting from the construction of the Beinn an Tuirc wind farm in Scotland, a preconstruction habitat management plan was implemented, aimed at reducing prey availability within the wind farm while enhancing foraging habitat away from the wind farm (Walker et al. 2005).;Compensation may be divided into four broad categories (1) on site (in or adjacent to the wind farm), (2) offsite, (3) inkind (same or similar), and (4) outofkind. (Table 6.1). Compensation can thus