A modelled estimate of the number of collision mortalities for a threatened species has little value without an understanding of the possible effect the mortalities may have on the viability of the relevant population. Mathematical population models are designed to explore influences on the demographic functioning of an animalpopulation. Population viability analysis (PVA) and potential biological removal (PBR) are two demographic models that have had wide application. PVA originated as a means to evaluate negative or positive influences on threatened wildlife populations (Gilpin  Soul 1986), including deleterious human impacts and positive conservation measures. PBR was first developed to evaluate the effects of anthropogenic mortality on populations of marine mammals (Wade 1998) where values for few demographic parameters are available. While the principal applications of PVA and PBR have been to assess the effects of such things as habitat loss, commercial harvest and recreational shooting of wildlife species, both have also been used to assess the population impacts of bird collisions at wind farms.;Mathematical modelling of risk is intended to provide an articulated, transparent and replicable consideration of what may occur in reality. Regardless of the model used, the rationale behind predictions is explicitly stated in the mathematics of a model, which means that the logical consistency of the predictions can be evaluated. The explicit nature of inputs and rigour entailed in modelling mean that the process is replicable and consistent, and it is open to analysis, criticism or modification when new information becomes available. Although it is necessary to include some assumptions and arbitrary choices when deciding on the structure and parameters of a model, these choices are stated explicitly.;Models are also valuable for their heuristic capacities as they focus attention on important processes and parameters entailed in risk (Brook et al. 2002). Their very nature facilitates the incorporation of information as it is learnt (Burgman 2005), and refinements should thus be expected of any model. Collision risk models and population models provide quantitative assessments of mortalities and proportions of populations that may be affected by collisions. In the absence of modelling, subjective judgement would otherwise have to be employed. However, even with quantitative assessment, the acceptability of predicted mortalities is a wholly different and philosophical question. Green (2014) makes the point that Ultimately, the definition of an acceptable risk of a given outcome is a matter for informed but subjective judgement.