Microavoidance may include cognitive behaviour in which a bird becomes aware of danger and takes evasive action, or simple chance resulting in inadvertent safe passage between turbine blades. For the purposes of collision risk modelling, a microavoidance rate is important but the reason it occurs is not. An avoidance parameter may be incorporated into a model at any stage by simply scaling the number of movements at risk by (1  v), where v is a measure of the birds ability to avoid objects. Thus, with an avoidance rate of 0.90,a bird will avoid a collision with a turbine in its flight path in nine out of every ten flights. It is now established that some taxa have higher avoidance ability than others. For example, in a summary of this aspect, Cook et al. (2014) cite SNH guidance (2010) that suggests use of an 0.99 avoidance rate for geese, Hen Harrier Circus cyaneus and Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos, but 0.95 as an appropriate rate for Kestrel Falco tinnunculus and Whitetailed Eagle. Ideally, empirical data from observational investigations of birds flying within the immediate proximity of turbines would provide real rates of microavoidance. However, as discussed by a number of authors (Chamberlain et al. 2006 Madders  Whitfield 2006 Cook et al. 2012), it has proven difficult to obtain empirical data for actual turbine avoidance rates from observational studies. In the main, this is because while human observers may rarely document a collision, they experience difficulty in determining the precise flight path of a bird and whether it is actually on a potential collision course, and hence whether active avoidance of any kind was involved when no collision occurs. While improvements have been made in methods using human observers (Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Garvin et al. 2011 Hull  Muir 2013), and those studies used defined distances of birds from turbines in their considerations of microavoidance, they appear not to have been able to completely discriminate between meso and microavoidance. This situation, in which observed avoidance partially or wholly encompasses meso and microavoidance, fits the definition of withinwind farm avoidance of Cook et al. (2014).;Owing to the difficulties associated with such observational studies, avoidance rates have usually been determined not from direct observations of the behaviour of birds close to turbines but, as discussed by various authors (Whitfield 2009 Band 2012 Cook et al. 2012 2014), by an indirect derivation in which rates are calculated from the difference between a predicted collision rate and the number of fatalities that actually occur that is Avoidance rate  1  (Actual deathsPredicted deaths assuming no avoidance). This approach has a number of problems. For offshore wind farms, collision carcasses cannot be found and tallied. Estimation of the total number of deaths at onshore wind farms is based on the collision carcasses detected during a search regime, and accounting for carcasses missed by searchers and lost to scavengers. While methods to account for searcher efficiency and carcass persistence have improved (e.g. Huso 2011 see Chapter 14 in this volume), the process most often results in mortality estimates with large confidence intervals. As a consequence, a derived