Finally, the routing of access roads and the placement of the main buildings should also be taken into consideration whenattempting to minimise impacts on birds. A comparative study by PearceHiggins et al. (2012) indicated that breeding upland birds were more disturbed during wind farm construction than during operation, leading to stronger displacement effects. This stresses the need for strict guidelines to restrict construction activity during the breeding season. The impact of construction activity may further be minimised through spatial (turbinebyturbine) rather than phased (foundationtoturbine) approaches to limit the extent of disturbance in space and time. Guidelines for birdfriendly construction as well as limiting maintenance activity during operation in the vicinity of breeding sites (Dahl et al. 2012) should be followed during the planning and design phase.;Where monitoring shows that the level of impact is greater than predicted or desired, efforts to reduce the level of impact are required. Possible mitigation options to reduce bird impacts further within constructed wind farms can be categorised as either turbine based or bird based. Turbinebased measures aim to reduce the exposure to collision risk through operational adjustments. In other words, they aim to reduce the number of risky events. Alternatively, measures may aim to decrease the exposure of birds to the turbines through increased detectability or deterrence, or indirectly through habitat alternations. Although many technoecological fixes, as mentioned below, have been proposed to reduce turbineinduced bird impacts, the implementation of functional mitigation measures lags behind (Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015).;Most proposed mitigation measures focus on adjusted operation, either by altering turbine speed (cutin speed, feathering) or through the temporary shutdown of turbines. For large soaring birds that use thermal updraughts, adjusting the cutin speed, possibly at specific turbines and within limited time windows, may reduce collision risk at lower wind speeds. Barrios and Rodriguez (2004) found that collision risk for raptors at two wind farms in Cadiz province in Spain declined at wind speeds over 8 metres per second. Smallwood et al. (2009b) found similar values for the number of observed birds in flight in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area in California, USA (34 on the Beaufort scale circa 58 metres per second) however, they noted that the frequency of flights close to turbines (50 m) increased with wind speed. Reduction of the risk window by adjusting the cutin speed may, however, come at relatively low cost because energy generation at low wind speeds is