An FL approach to develop predictive models from behaviour data, fatality data and measured terrain attributes was selected. The FL approach is a rulebased system useful with noisy data or with zerodominated data sets, and is applied to events occurring within classes that are assumed to have graduated rather than sharp boundaries. The rules consist of assigning likelihood values of an event occurring, which in the case of this study would be the likelihood of a bird performing a specific behaviour within a cell ofan analytical grid laid over the project area. Likelihood values can range 0 to 1 for each predictor variable, depending on how far a value of the predictor variable differs from the mean where the event was recorded. The analyst assesses the magnitude of each deviation from the mean based on error levels, measurement scale (e.g. continuous versus nominal), data distribution and the analysts understanding of the system.;Siting wind turbines to minimise avian collision hazard benefits from an understanding of (1) how birds use the airspace over the landscape where new wind turbines are proposed or planned, and (2) patterns of fatalities among terrain features and wind conditions associated with earlier or existing wind turbines. Understanding how birds use the airspace improves from monitoring of bird activity and specific flight behaviours under various wind conditions and landscape settings (Smallwood et al. 2009b 2009c). In the 543 ha Vasco Caves Regional Preserve, Smallwood et al. (2009b 2009c) recorded 774 hours of ontheminute observations of raptors from 15 stations from June 2006 to September 2007. The Alameda County Monitor recorded ontheminute observations of raptors throughout the APWRA from 2005 to 2011 (ICF 2014, unpublished data), and Insignia Environmental did so at Buena Vista in 2007 and 2008 (Insignia 2011, unpublished data). This on theminute mapping of bird locations and behaviours proved much more instructive over the simple use data typically collected at wind projects, but it yielded only crude spatial patterns for only a few siterepetitive behaviours such as perching, kiting and hovering. After comparing use rates with fatality rates and seeing no significant spatial or interannual relationships between the two, it was decided to focus more on the behaviour patterns to predict collision hazards. More focused behaviour surveys throughout the APWRA have been performed since November 2012, including visual tracking of individual birds and noting specifically how they interacted with wind turbines. These observation data can be related to a DEM to derive predictive models of locations where raptors more often fly or perform certain behaviours. The predictive models can then be projected to areas where new wind turbines are