Quantifying the risk of wind turbines on bats is challenging, but may assist decision makers when siting and operating wind farms or specific turbines. Research conducted before the construction of the wind farm (preconstruction) and after operations have commenced (postconstruction) is used to predict risk and quantify the impact of wind turbines on bats, respectively. Several of the tools, such as acoustic detectors, can be used in either pre or postconstruction studies, whereas carcass searching is only possible after the wind farm is operational. In some cases only one method may be appropriate, but often a suite of tools, such as acoustic surveys combined with mistnetting, is necessary. Several agencies have produced guidelines to inform stakeholders on the appropriate methods to use for pre and postconstruction studies. The method or methods used will depend on the objectives and logistical constraints of the study. For example, acoustic monitoring is a relatively costeffective method of assessing the activity patterns of bats in relation to season and weather conditions, but capturing bats allows for species identification, tissue samples and potentially radiotagging individuals to locate roosts. New technologies advance our understanding of bat and wind turbine interactions and complement existing methods. Historically, acoustic surveys and carcass searches have been used in combination to assess potential risk, estimate fatality, and relate activity and fatality to nightly weather patterns. However, it was not until the application of infrared imaging cameras that observing bat and wind turbine interactions became possible. Video imaging of bat behaviour, combined with weather and turbine operations data, can provide additional information on the specific timing and conditions when interactions or fatalities occur that is not available with traditional methods. This chapter summarises the benefits and limitations of the common and emerging methods used in the USA, Canada and