Another factor to consider is spatial scale. Several maps have been at the 1 km square scale (e.g. maps for Scotland, England and Ireland) although the South African map was produced at a 5  5minute scale (equivalent to 7.8  8 km), and others have been based on outlines of important areas, such as the map for the USA (Table 5.1). Sensitivity can be due to the presence of one or more sensitive species (e.g. Scotland and England) or based on a cumulative score (e.g. South Africa and Ireland), or the map may display raw data for interpretation.;In addition to data on wildlife, some maps include other factors such as wind resource and economic or social constraints, with the aim of identifying the best areas for biodiversity and wind farm development (Polasky et al. 2008 Eichorn  Drechsler 2010 Kiesecker et al. 2011 Jakle 2012 Katsaprakakis 2012). For example, Eichorn and Drechsler (2010) created a tool to identify the best way to maximise wind energy supply while minimising the effect on Red Kite, one of the species most frequently in collision with wind turbines in Germany. This incorporated wind speed, distance from habitation and Red Kite territory locations. Katsaprakakis (2012) created a map of optimum areas for wind farm development in the Prefecture of Lasithi on Crete, based on a number of restrictions on land use (e.g. airports, antennae and military sites), environmental conservation (e.g. SPAs and other Natura 2000 sites) and impacts on human life (e.g. visual and noise impacts on historical and archaeological sites, tourist destinations and residential areas). Aydin et al. (2010) created a map for western Turkey at the 250  250 m scale, based on economic feasibility, noise level, bird habitat, safety and aesthetics, and natural reserves (Table 5.1).;Models have also been used to estimate the cost of compensatory habitat, or to identify where mitigation measures such as shutdown are likely to reduce collision risk. Obermeyer et al. (2011) included the estimated cost of mitigation measures for birds in a sensitivity map for Kansas, USA, and identified (1) areas where wind development is incompatible with conservation, (2) areas where wind development may proceed but with compensatory mitigation for impacts, and (3) areas where development could proceed without the need for compensatory mitigation. Liechti et al. (2013) modelled broad front migration and calculated collision risk with respect to topography in order to map collision risk and identify areas where mitigation in the form of shutdown should be used to reduce risk.