PBR has been used to evaluate populationlevel effects of collisions for some species at individual wind farms. For example, Sugitomo and Matsuda (2011) applied PBR for a population ofapproximately 3,000 Whitefronted Geese Anser albifrons frontalis inhabiting the site of a tenturbine wind farm in Fukui Prefecture, Japan, where use of the Band model estimated an annual collision mortality of 02 geese. PBR indicated that the population could sustain a loss of 75 geese and thus that mortalities due to turbine collisions would have a negligible effect on the population. Otherwise, PBR has mainly been used in relation to assessments of offshore wind farms (e.g. Natural England 2012).;Assessment considering cumulative impacts at a population level across geographic scales (e.g. regional, national and international) has always been a fundamental part of EIA in the UK, and increasing emphasis is being given to this more strategic evaluation of collisions at multiple wind farms across andor for the entire populations of threatened taxa (Smales 2006 Masden et al. 2010 Poot et al. 2011 Diffendorfer et al. 2015). This more holistic approach should have benefits to conservation of relevant taxa that cannot be achieved by the assessment of individual wind farms in isolation. Population models are designed for this type of larger impact assessment and may be much more informative for strategic regional assessments than they can be for evaluating collisions at single wind farms. In this vein, the strategic application of PBR can provide an overarching context within which subsequent collision risk assessment for proposed wind farms can be evaluated. For example, Poot et al. (2011) used the Band collision risk model and PBR to evaluate the potential cumulative impacts on the Dutch populations of 28 species of birds for multiple potential new wind farms off the coast of the Netherlands.;However, if population modelling is to be used for cumulative impact assessments based on mortality estimates from collision risk modelling for individual wind farms, then a number of conditions need to be met. As described above, collision risk models differ and they do not necessarily use equivalent metrics. It is essential that if mortality estimates from various wind farms are pooled for the purpose of a regional cumulative impact assessment, they must all use consistent parameters, and great care will be needed to ensure that they do.