In a searcher efficiency study at four sites in the northeastern USA, researchers placed 1,288 trial carcasses (between 46 and 361 per site) in search plots at various times throughout the search season for discovery by monitoring teams searching on a daily basis. Search plots were subdivided into four visibility classes (easy, moderate, difficult and very difficult) depending on vegetative cover (see Arnett et al. 2009 for definitions). Trials were conducted for 13 years at each site. Carcasses that were not discovered on the first search after carcass placement were left in the field for possible detection during later searches. Carcasses were tracked for up to 20 searches and results recorded for four visibility classes in the field. Searcher efficiency in the verydifficult visibility class was too small to meaningfully estimate k, as only 1 of the 30 trial carcasses was detected on the first search and none at all in any subsequent search. Data from the very difficult class were subsequently disregarded. There were 24 combinations of site  visibility class  year in which k could be estimated using data from at least two searches, that is, combinations in which at least one carcass was observed on the first search and at least one carcass was available for detection on the second search.;Searcher efficiency was estimated for the first three searches (p1, p2 and p3) at each of the sites and plotted together with 90 credible intervals based on a noninformative Jeffreys prior (Jeffreys 1946) for binomial p parameter (Figure 4.5). The searcher efficiency for carcasses in the second search (p2) after being missed in the first search was consistently near 0.67p1, regardless of the visibility class magnitude of p1 (Figure 4.5). By the third search, many of the combinations with initially high values of p had insufficient carcasses remaining to be found. Nonetheless, searcher efficiency for carcasses in the third search (p3) after being missed in the second search was consistently near 0.77p2., very close to the initial estimate of k0.67, and again did not vary consistently with the magnitude of p2. This suggests that k may be constant across visibility classes and that the assumption of constant proportional decrease in searcher efficiency with each successive search is plausible.;Figure 4.5 Change in searcher efficiency (k) with three successive searches (p1, p2 and p3). Maximum likelihood estimate for k was only slightly greater on the third search (0.767) than on the second search (0.669).