Bird and bat collisions with wind turbines occur at variable frequencies around the world. Predictive modelling to estimate the number of collision mortalities of vulnerable taxa is widely used as part of environmental impact assessments for proposed wind farms. This chapter provides an overview of six collision risk models that are in use at the time of writing andor have been described in the peerreviewed literature. All are designed to provide estimates of average numbers of bird mortalities that may occur at a wind farm. The Band, Podolsky, Biosis and Hamer models have a basis in the mechanical interaction of a bird with a wind turbine, as originally conceived by Tucker. Common conceptual aspects include the requirement for empirical information about bird usage of the proposed site alongside specifics of turbines and their configuration in the landscape. Aspects that are common to, or differentiate, these models include their capacity to model for birds flying towards a turbine from any angle whether risk is presented by the whole turbine or just the moving rotor, whether flights are assumed to be in a straight path, and whether the result is measured in number of flights at risk or number of potential bird mortalities. In contrast to the other models, the Bayesian approach adopted by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service model primarily requires inputs derived from empirical experience of collisions at other wind farms. Overall, the determination of simple numbers of mortalities is less important than the impact of collision losses on the viability of threatened fauna populations. Demographic population modelling approaches, including population viability analysis (PVA) and potential biological removal (PBR), can be used to evaluate any impact. PVA requires detailed demographic information and may be best applied to regionalscale effects of multiple wind farms. PBRrelies on informed assumptions where empirical demographic data are lacking, but its utility depends on reaching agreement over the assumptions made.;A key consideration of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) undertaken as part of the regulatory consent decision process for a proposed wind farm is its potential to affect threatened birds and bats. Mortality of this fauna due to collisions with wind turbines has been documented internationally and its potential to present a threat to populations of vulnerable species requires appropriate consideration. Much of the focus of this work has been on large raptors, such as Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla at Smla wind farm in Norway (May et al. 2011 Dahl et al. 2013), Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus in Spain (de Lucas et al. 2012) and Tasmanian Wedge tailed Eagle Aquila audax fleayi (Hull  Muir 2013). Collision risk modelling has also been undertaken for a diversity of other taxa, ranging from the small migratory Orangebellied Parrot Neophema chrysogaster of Australia (Smales et al. 2006) to multiple seabirds of northern Europe (e.g. Poot et al. 2011).;The fundamental questions an assessment of potential effects of collisions should address are (1) How many individual animals are likely to be killed in collisions with turbines at the proposed wind farm? (2) What impact will the expected number of mortalities have on the viability of the species or population? Followed, where required, by (3) What compensatory mitigation is required to reduce or nullify any such effect? Collision risk models are designed to address the first question. Population models have the potential to address the second and third questions.;The primary use of collision modelling is to inform the EIA consent process for a wind farm and, when combined with population modelling, can permit assessment of impacts at various geographic scales. In the UK, use of the Rochdale Envelope principle in the EIA process (Infrastructure Planning Commission 2011) can evaluate a worst case scenario and thus allows for flexibility in the final wind farm design. In other jurisdictions, collision risk modelling has been used to evaluate relative risks associated with various types of turbines and turbine configurations during planning of a wind farm.