Data from the APWRA were used to clearly illustrate the effect of the variation in the visible volume of airspace among survey stations and wind farms, and that use rates must be adjusted accordingly. Bird detection rates decline with distance from the observer, and speciesspecific distance sampling protocols and appropriate analytical software, if applicable to flying moving targets, should be utilised. Efforts should also be made to adjust for variation in detection rates of birds during use surveys due to sex, behaviour, ground speed, terrain and vegetation cover. The proportion of the surveyed airspace that is sky versus terrainbackgrounds will vary and will affect detection rates. More needs to be done to adjust for likely error in estimated flight heights, and training can be more clearly described and effectiveness reported.;Lumping of species to derive use rates for comparison to use rates and fatality rates at other wind farms will almost always involve inappropriate comparisons due to differences in species composition between wind farms and years. Further rigorous effort should be made to relate fatality rates to use rates or to exposure index values to assess whether North Americas premiere baseline survey methodology is actually effective. The data from 93 reports at 82 wind farms in North America compiled here indicate that use rates, particularly by raptors, usually cannot predict fatality impacts (as also shown by de Lucas et al. 2008 and Ferrer et al. 2012), so unless accuracy is improved, there should be greater reliance on other types of surveys in the future.;For example, behaviour surveys are predictive, probably because flight behaviours in response to wind and terrain are instinctive rather than learned, and so are stable. Many of the sources of uncertainty and bias associated with use surveys pose no problems for behaviour surveys. Specific terrain features or hazardous conditions should also be routinely targeted. Directed visual scans would also be likely to improve prediction, as these would obtain and enumerate passage rates of birds across the airspace of candidate turbine locations, which will help to determine actual collision risk. Radar can be directed in a similar manner, and fatality rates at wind farms and individual turbines can be related to targets per hour detected by radar, which can be useful so long as investigators perform additional surveys to verify that the radar targets are likely to be members of particular species. Telemetry is becomingly increasingly sophisticated and is likely to be able to provide highly informative data for particular species. Nocturnal surveys should also be performed using thermal cameras, both for tracking the behaviour of target birds and for tabulating passage rates.;Fundamentally, it is now clear that a variety of methods are available and should be employed to assess wind energy impacts on many avian species that vary in geographic distribution, ecology, relative abundance, behaviour, detectability and conservation status. Whereas methodological standardisation in survey methods between sites has often been emphasised, standardisation may be more profitably directed towards objectives, observer skill levels, study design, survey effort in terms of intensity, grain and duration, and peer review and data sharing.