Population modelling offers a framework for understanding the effects of predicted collision mortality on the viability of entire populations of the species of interest. PVA has sometimes been used for this purpose and PBR may be applicable where less precise demographic information is available. However, each of these models has requirements that may limit their application to mortality estimates for single wind farms, although their greatervalue is likely to be in assessment of the broader effects of the cumulative impacts of multiple sites (Diffendorfer et al. 2015).;Gilpin and Soul (1986) developed PVA as an approach to evaluate the various influences on a population and to quantify its viability in terms of altered extinction risk, or more commonly quasi extinction risk. A number of PVA software programs have been developed and are widely used (Lindenmayer et al. 1995). Demographic PVAs can also be used to identify vulnerable life history stages (Gilpin  Soul 1986) and to explore the probability of population persistence under various impacts. In consideration of the small number of mortalities that usually result from collisions with wind turbines, and the relatively short lifespan of a wind farm, PVA results defined by the probability of extinction over much longer timespans are not particularly relevant to wind farm studies, and for this purpose a PVA or similar population model is more typically undertaken to simply quantify impacts.;A PVAtype model that will be informative for a threatened species at a particular wind farm requires detailed background demographic information for the taxon in question, such as age and sexspecific survivorship and mortality rates, density dependence and measures of stochasticity. Where these values are available, a PVA undertaken to evaluate background population trends for an important taxon offers valuable context for consideration of additional mortalities due to wind farm collisions. An example of the use of PVA for a single wind farm is provided in Box 3.2. In another example, the Department of Energy  Climate Change (DECC 2012) in the UK based their Appropriate Assessment, in respect of the potential impact of three large offshore wind farms on an internationally important breeding population of Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis, on the outputs of an individualbased population model relative to estimates of additional annual mortality derived from collision risk modelling underpinned by data from intensive sitespecific surveys. In addition, Freeman et al. (2014) used integrated population models to inform potential collision impacts for five species of seabirds at four internationally important Special Protection Areas along the Scottish east coast.