Early stakeholder engagement and consultation throughout the spatial planning or sensitivity mapping process is the ideal approach, giving the chance for early resolution of potential conflicts of interest, and speeding up the planning process. A good example of this comes from the Renewable Energy Transmission Initiative in California, USA, an attempt at a stakeholderled planning process (Box 5.3) (Olsen et al. 2012) to rank Competitive Renewable Energy Zones in California and neighbouring regions using economic and environmental criteria, and produce a transmission plan for power line locations. In Scotland, a working group was formed consisting of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) as the statutory nature conservation adviser to the Scottish Government, and the Scottish Government itself. In Ireland, stakeholders have been involved in the sensitivity mapping process from the beginning, both as funders of the project and as stakeholders who guided the production of the associated guidance documents.;The Renewable Energy Transmission Initiative (RETI) was established in California, USA, in 2007, with the aim of a new stakeholderled planning process, more public participation and early engagement of different interest groups (Olsen et al. 2012). This was in reaction to large renewable energy targets (33 of supplied electricity by 2020), and the previous situation where transmission planning was conducted primarily by utilities in a reactive fashion, with stakeholders becoming engaged at a later date, increasingly through litigation (Olsen et al. 2012). RETI identified and ranked Competitive Renewable Energy Zones (CREZs) in California and neighbouring regions using economic and environmental criteria, and produced a highlevel conceptual transmission plan for power line locations (Figure 5.4). The initiative was directed by a 29member Stakeholder Steering Committee including representatives of California LoadServing Entities (LSEs) and Transmission Providers biomass, geothermal, solar and wind generating companies local, state and federal permitting agencies the military First Nation tribes consumers and environmental groups. A similar approach was later extended throughout the 11 western states in the USA (Olsen et al. 2012).