During carcass searches, it is good practice to collect tissue and hair samples from freshly killed bats, which can later be used to determine their origin and migratory patterns, predict risk or estimate population sizes (Box 2.2). Using stable isotope analysis, Baerwald et al. (2014) determined that Silverhaired Bats probably originated farther north or at higher elevations than Hoary Bats and that both species originated from a large catchment area potentially hundreds of kilometres away from the wind farm where they were found. Santos et al. (2013) used carcass data to develop species distribution models to predict areas of probable fatality and theenvironmental variables that foster high fatality rates. Their models indicated that wind farms sited in humid areas with mild temperatures, located within 5 km of forests and 600 m of steep slopes, showed higher probabilities of fatalities. Vonhof and Russell (2015) used genetic data from Eastern Red Bats Lasiurus borealis to evaluate patterns of population structure, estimate effective population size and assess signals in population growth or decline. Their results suggest that Eastern Red Bat forms a single, panmictic population across its range, with an effective population size in the hundreds of thousands to millions. Estimates of population data provide a perspective on the populationlevel impact of wind turbinerelated fatalities and whether they are sustainable.;Knowing the origin and largescale movement patterns of bats that are killed by wind turbines can be helpful in siting decisions. It is well documented that migratory species make up the majority of fatalities at wind farms (Rydell et al. 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013), but little is known about the distance from source population of turbinerelated fatalities. If wind turbines kill bats that have migrated long distances, as opposed to sedentary individuals, then wind farms may cause the decline in bat populations on a much larger geographic scale.;Studies by Voigt et al. (2012) and Lehnert et al. (2014) have taken advantage of bat carcasses killed by wind turbines to conduct stable isotope analyses using fur samples. The isotopic patterns in meteoric waters across continents have been used for tracking migratory movements of animals, including bats (Cryan et al. 2004), because the stable isotope ratios of nonexchangeable hydrogen in inert keratin tissues, such as fur, reflect the variation of stable isotope ratios in precipitation assimilated along the food chain (Hobson 1999). In Europe, stable isotope ratios of precipitation are known to vary along a north to south gradient (Bowen et al. 2005). Since bats moult in their breeding habitat before migration, they carry an isotopic fingerprint of their geographic origin in their fur. Low levels of nonexchangeable hydrogen (2H) in fur indicate that animals have moulted in a relatively cold climate where precipitation values are low, whereas fur with high values of 2H originates in a warm climate where precipitation is high.