Studies in Scotland suggest that bat activity may be deterred by electromagnetic signals from small, portable radar units. Nicholls and Racey (2009) found that bat activity and foraging effort per unit time were reduced significantly during experimental trials when their radar antenna was fixed to produce a unidirectional signal that maximised the exposure of foraging bats to the radar beam. The effectiveness of radar as a potential deterrent, however, has not been tested at an operational wind farm to determine whether bat fatalities could be significantly reduced by these means. Thus, it is unclear whether electromagnetic signals would deter bats that are migrating or commuting as effectively as those that areforaging, particularly as resident individuals. Moreover, the effective range of electromagnetic signals, as well as the number of (potentially costly) radar units needed to affect the most airspace near individual turbines would need to be determined to fully evaluate effectiveness, and allow a costbenefit analysis relative to other potential deterrents (Arnett et al. 2013b) and increasing cutin speed (see above and Baerwald et al. 2009 Arnett et al. 2011).;The development and operation of wind farms has both direct (mortality or loss of habitat) and indirect (avoidance of habitat due to disturbance) effects on wildlife (Arnett et al. 2007 Arnett 2012). Direct and indirect loss of habitat and its effects on bats has not been studied, and mortality is presumed to be the most important impact. The use of offsite, compensatory approaches such as habitat protection, to mitigate bat fatalities at wind facilities has been contemplated, but never employed or tested to determine how effective it may be. Peste et al. (2015) reviewed conservation measures for bats that could compensate for negative impacts that may remain after avoidance and minimisation measures are considered. The measures considered to be beneficial to bats included preservation of roosts, provision of new roosts, creation of open water and forest management.;A fundamental problem with offsite compensation for wind farm related bat fatalities is that there is no empirical basis for determining how much of any given conservation measure, or combination of measures, is needed to offset fatalities, and over what temporal and spatial scale this should operate. Furthermore, for species experiencing a high level of cumulative fatalities, such as migratory treeroosting species in the USA and Canada (Johnson 2005 Arnett  Baerwald 2013), offsite mitigation to offset fatalities seems unlikely to prevent populationlevel effects. To illustrate, assuming that the estimated cumulative bat fatality calculations presented by Arnett and Baerwald (2013) are correct, and assuming that 196,190395,886 bats were killed in 2012 alone (of which 74,552150,437 or 38 were Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus), the amount of habitat protection, enhancement or creation required to truly offset these fatalities would seem to be too high to contemplate. In other words, even if we knew that x amount of hectares of forest habitat would produce y number of bats in z amount of time, compensatory measures alone seem highly unlikely to compensate for actual fatalities of those species that experience