The wind farms adaptive management strategy for the California Condor over the 30year operational life of the project is the first of its kind implemented with first the legal taking (e.g. killing or harming) of this species (Streater 2013). Project developers worked with conservation groups and state departments in deciding what steps to take if future issues occur. As the VHF transmitters would eventually be phased out, the facility agreed to install the VHFdetection system during the first few years of operation and then replace it with an alternativeserviceapproved detection radar system. Another strategy is the changes in use of their 816mile detection perimeter area for the condors. If a condor is detected within the 16mile detection perimeter but more than 8 miles away, stakeholder discussions are held to determine the next moves. For example, a bird moving to around 12 miles from the site and continuing to use the area is not placed at risk and thus the wind farm can operate normally. But if there is a change within the eightmile detection perimeter more than once in a month or more than twice in two months, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service Bureau of Land Management would discuss the need to reenter formal consultation. If the wind farm can no longer rely on the qualified biologist, the Condor Monitoring System measures and the detection system, then the facility will go into failsafe mode and operate at night only (as the California Condor is a diurnally active species) until new plans have been formally established. These adaptive management strategies would only be triggered either if California Condors increase their use of the area subject to the risk of collisions or if there is a decrease in the percentage of birds equipped with VHF transmitters (USFWS 2013).;Adaptive management relies on scientifically rigorous monitoring of the effects upon target species or habitats, for example monitoring collision of birds, fatality monitoring of bats to ensure that the numbers killed are below a particular predetermined level (see Box 4.3 in Chapter 4 in this volume), or perhaps the spread of alien flora, which can then be systematically removed once the site is complete (see Box 3.3 in Volume 1, Chapter 3). It is, however, essential that the monitoring tools selected are fit for purpose. This may require reevaluation of the techniques available. For example, visual use surveys have been a standard to describe the use of a site by birds, particularly in the planning and preconstruction phase, but also during postconstruction monitoring. As detailed in Chapter 1 of this volume, preconstruction use surveys have largely proven to be inadequate in describing postconstruction fatality (see also Ferrer et al. 2012). This may be for a number of reasons, including that use surveys over a wide area did not explicitly provide passage