Whereas some baseline studies report that observers were periodically paired up to compare estimates of flight heights of mutually observed birds, the practice has been portrayed more as a training method than a quantification of the error. Both observers in a pair are vulnerable to error, so a true quantification of the errorwould have to be made using a bird against which height above ground could be measured rather than estimated. Stanek (2013) quantified the error and found the average difference in height above ground estimates to be 48 m (SD106 m) between two simultaneous observers using telescopes fitted with the Global Positioning System (GPS), inclinometers and angle of azimuth recorders. However, most visual scans do not use telescopes, and most in North America include visual cues, such as meteorological towers, trees or wind turbines, to help observers to estimate height above ground.;Use rates representing groups of species such as raptors convey no comparative value unless the suites of species between sampling periods or places include the same species of raptor and the same likelihoods of visually detecting those species. However, this condition could not be satisfied for any two periods or any two places in North America. Even though raptor use rates may have been measured as exactly the same value, one rate could have been strongly influenced by Turkey Vultures Cathartes aura at one location or period and by Burrowing Owls at another location or period. Use rates representing different species compositions pose different collision likelihoods because species vary in detectability during use surveys as well as in susceptibility to wind turbine collisions.;Figure 1.10 Cumulative Golden Eagle detections increased more rapidly over small hills than they did over large hills (left graph). Golden Eagle detections per 100 hours per cubic kilometre of visible airspace were variable but more or less equal to 213 m (7  30.5 m radial bands) extending from the observer, but increased over small hills thereafter (middle graph). Perched birds (right graph) were not seen from plots on small hills until the birds were 275 m distant from the observer, suggesting that Golden Eagles left perches as observers approached observation stations in shallow terrain. This was, in fact, often noted by observers approaching their stations.