Finally, birds may be discouraged indirectly, either by making turbine surroundings less attractive or by enhancing the habitat quality outside the wind farm. Onsite habitat alterations aim to dissuade birds from utilising the wind farm area, that is, to increasedisplacement effects to reduce collision risk. Such measures may include clearcutting forests (Walker et al. 2005), reducing prey availability (Hunt 2002 Martin et al. 2012 MartnezAbran et al. 2012) and removal of foraging habitat to reduce collision fatalities at the turbine foundations (Smallwood  Thelander 2004 Marques et al. 2014). Offsite habitat alterations to lure birds away from the wind farm area include supplementary feeding (Camina 2011 Paula et al. 2011) and the creation of (artificial) nest sites (Johnson et al. 2007) or roostsperches. Simultaneously altering habitat quality both on and offsite, when only considering habitat alteration options, may maximise its efficacy. From a landscape perspective, birds could theoretically also be directed safely through or around a wind farm along flight corridors by establishing linear features in the landscape. However, the lack of specificity of habitat alterations may limit the interest from a conservation point of view, as any positive effect for the species of concern may simultaneously introduce negative effects for other species.;Figure 6.4 Painted rotor blades and tower base to test the efficacy of painting in reducing avian collisions at the Smla wind farm. (Roel May);After bird impacts have been addressed sequentially during the planning, design and construction phases, residual impacts may be compensated for during the operational phase of a wind farm. Compensation of residual impacts means achieving no net loss, or even net gain (Gardner et al. 2013). Determining what no net loss entails will be critical in assessing how wind energy deployment can be reconciled with nature conservation laws, directives and policy (Cole 2011). In the first instance, compensation for residual impacts may be a scientific question related to the population dynamics of