Exposure risk of bats to collisions with turbines based on theoretical models could improve our understanding of factors influencing fatality and the context of fatalities. In Italy, species distribution models indicate that 41 of the region offers suitable foraging habitat for Leislers Bat Nyctalus leisleri and the Common Pipistrelle Pipistrellus pipistrellus, which are vulnerable to wind turbines, and these same areas encompass over 50 of existing or planned wind farms (Roscioni et al. 2013). Fatality risk for thesespecies may be increased by proximity to forest edges, but this contradicts other findings from southern Europe, suggesting the opposite relationship (M.J. DubourgSavage, personal communication). Roscioni et al. (2014) further investigated habitat connectivity as a surrogate for assessing the risks of wind farms on bat migration and commuting, and found that most corridors used by bats were concentrated in an area where existing (54) and planned (72) wind facilities could interfere with connectivity in the region of Italy under study. Fatality risk models indicated that Portuguese wind farms located in humid areas with mild temperatures and within 600 m of steep slopes had higher probabilities of mortality (Santos et al. 2013). The same study also demonstrated that a large extent of the area predicted to be of high risk for bats overlapped with sites that were highly suitable for wind farms. High mortality risk areas also overlapped greatly with the potential distribution of Leislers Bat in Portugal, suggesting that populations of this species may be at high risk as a result of fatalities at wind farms.;Predicting and avoiding highrisk areas for bats has proven difficult in most situations. Evaluating the effectiveness of pre construction bat activity surveys and habitat modelling in predicting future fatalities at wind farms remains a valid research effort that requires more studies to define this relationship. More importantly, empirical verification of theoretical, habitat and species distributionbased risk models will be an important next step to determine the accuracy and precision of modelbased predictions of turbine fatalities. The simultaneous use of acoustic monitoring, radar, thermal imaging and other technologies concurrent with fatality studies would be likely to aid in determining exposure risk and improve predictions of highrisk areas to avoid, or in determining appropriate mitigation (Arnett et al. 2007 Kunz et al. 2007a Arnett  Baerwald 2013).;Previous studies indicate that a substantial portion of bat fatalities occur during relatively lowwind conditions during late summer to autumn (fall) periods coincident with bat migration (Arnett 2005 Arnett et al. 2008 Rydell et al. 2010a). Bats are known to significantly reduce their flight activity during periods of rain, low temperatures and strong winds (Erickson  West 2002 Reynolds 2006 Horn et al. 2008 Weller  Baldwin 2012), and risk to collision with wind turbines is likely to be reduced under these