Behaviour may play a role in the susceptibility of certain species of bats to collide with wind turbines, and visual observations may be the only means of evaluating the potential attraction of bats to these structures (Kunz et al. 2007b Cryan et al. 2014). Nightvision goggles and scopes, and nearinfrared and thermal video cameras can enhance our understanding of bat activity patterns during pre construction surveys and how bats are interacting with wind turbines during postconstruction monitoring. Data such as flight direction and altitude, proportions of bats flying above, within or below the rotorswept area, the average passage rate (the number of observations per unit time), and behaviour, including close approaches or hovering near wind turbines, can be recorded (Kunz et al. 2007). Species identification, however, is rarely possible using this method, unless acoustic recordings are synchronised with video observations (Cryan et al. 2014) (Box 2.1). The simultaneous recording of both video and acoustic data also may help to determine whether bats are echolocating during migration or when flying in close proximity to wind turbines.;Combining research methods can enhance our understanding of bat activity, behaviour and fatality at wind farms. However, too few studies incorporate multiple techniques during pre and post construction. Cryan et al. (2014) provide a clear exception with the use of infrared imaging, acoustic detectors, radar and fatality monitoring to study bat activity, behaviour and fatality at three Vestas 1.65 MW wind turbines with 82 m rotor diameter and 80 m high tower at the 355turbine Fowler Ridge Wind Farm, Indiana, USA.;The site is relatively flat and dominated by Maize (corn) Zea mays and Soya Bean (soybean) Glycine max fields, with only 5 forest or human development (Figure 2.3). A 90 m radius circle was cleared of crops surrounding the base of each wind turbine. Daily fatality searches were conducted along transects spaced every 4 m. The radar unit was positioned to view the rotorswept area of one of the three turbines each night and rotated among turbines on a nightly basis. Acoustic detectors were positioned on the top of the wind turbines, pointing up and towards the back of the nacelle. Thermal video cameras were positioned 12 m from