In this Volume 2, the concept was to focus largely on birds and bats as the two groups that have been the focus of both monitoring and mitigation efforts. The volume opens with Monitoring birds followed by Monitoring bats. These two chapters review available techniques used in both preconstruction characterisation surveys as well as postconstruction surveys. The former chapter also provides something of a critique of use or utilisation surveys that have been the mainstay of bird monitoring at wind farms. Modelling of collisionrisk and populations and Statistical principles of fatality monitoring form a short subsection outlining these essential techniques for predicting and confirming impacts, respectively. To date, modelling has focused on birds, but could equally be used to begin to predict impacts on bats, bearing in mind that little is currently known of the latters population demography and dynamics. It is essential that researchers follow the principles outlined in the latter chapter if fatality monitoring, irrespective of whether searching is conducted using humans or dogs, is to provide meaningful estimates in order to judge impacts.;What could be viewed as a mitigation subsection is fronted by Spatial planning, which has generally been applied to birds, but is conceivably of relevance to any wildlife taxon. Mitigation for birds provides an overview of all options using the mitigation hierarchy. Turbine siting for raptors then focuses on an aspect of mitigation for a particularly vulnerable group of birds, describing research driven by repowering  the replacement of oldgeneration turbines with fewer, larger turbines  within the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area, one of the beststudied localities in the world. The subsection is concluded with Mitigation for bats, which involves processes quite different to those for birds as a result of the different sensory systems of the two groups and the potential attraction of bats to turbines. The final chapter of the nine in the volume, A best practice approach to future planning, provides a overview of how mitigation should be incorporated into the planning framework and emphasises the need for adaptive management.;To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgments and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results, Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over the two volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whilst others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides a 300 word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themes