Sensitivity mapping generally involves subjective decisions, as the literature will not hold all the information, or at least not for every species. This raises questions on what buffer zones to assignand how to allocate sensitivity ratings if these are used. How robust these are will depend on the scientific information available, such as the effects of wind farms on the species in question. Consultation of experts can help a consensus to be reached. For example, the Delphi approach used by Garthe and Hppop (2004) in the North Sea was adopted as a template in the design of the Irish consultation process, followed by a wide consultation process for individual SSSs and zones of sensitivity involving consultation within BirdWatch Ireland and with external experts. Alternatively, in some cases such subjective decisions can be avoided by presenting raw data alongside guidance for their interpretation (see Box 5.1).;The Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds (BSPB) produced a Bulgarian wind farm sensitivity map with government support. This was driven by a European Commission case against Bulgaria (IP13966) in relation to the Kaliakra region in northeast Bulgaria on the shores of the Black Sea. Although this region is of high importance for many endangered bird species, a large number of developments, including many wind turbines, had been authorised, purportedly without adequate environmental assessment.;One of the unique aspects of the project compared to many others is that much of the data used was actually collected for the project. Species included in the map included 38 soaring migratory bird species, Corn Crake Crex crex, Common Quail Coturnix coturnix, European Beeeater Merops apiaster and Sand Martin Riparia riparia, as well as other Annex I species, geese, swans and other waterfowl. In total, 115 fieldworkers took part in the surveys, which took 4,633 persondays. The new surveys carried out included (1) the first national survey of the foraging areas of wintering geese in Bulgaria (2) a coordinated survey of wintering geese with the LIFE project Safe grounds for the Red breasted Goose, a critically endangered species (3) the first national study of Special Protection Areas in Bulgaria since their designation and (4) the first systematic radar study of local movements of breeding birds (httpwww.buwa.nlenbird migrationinbulgaria.html).