In other words, there is growing awareness of the potential and actual impacts of indirect effects. For example, largescale habitat modification such as vegetation removal (see Volume 1, Chapter 3) may interfere with natural geomorphology and hydrology, with consequences not only for terrestrial flora and fauna but also for watercourses and their dependent wildlife, including fish (Volume 1, Chapter 5). Even subtle changes in habitat conditions may favour shifts in competitive balance (see Volume 1, Chapter 3), as may the changes in microclimate within wind farms (Volume 1, Chapter 2). Habitat fragmentation, for example as a result of roads, may change ecological functioning and interfere with biological processes such as gene flow throughthe populations of sedentary species. The accidental introduction or promotion of invasive alien species may be especially significant for native flora (see Volume 1, Chapter 3) and dependent invertebrates (Volume 1, Chapter 4), with knockon effects for other trophic levels.;Similarly, the provision of new habitats may lead to colonisation or expansion of native populations, also with consequences for interactions between species. Thelander and Smallwood (2007) described increased densities of rodents and lagomorphs within wind farms as a result of habitat provision in the form of rockpiles and turbine bases, which attracted birds of prey that may then have been at risk of collision. There is a similar intriguing prospect for scavenging birds of prey to be attracted to corpses of collision victims. Conversely, other scavengers, from mammals (Volume 1, Chapter 10) to burying beetles (Volume 1, Chapter 4), may directly benefit from an increased carrion load. The level of adjustment for scavenger removal required when estimating collision mortality (see Volume 2, Chapter 4) provides a clear indication of the potential strength of this effect. In contrast, species that would otherwise have benefited from an additional food supply, such as a variety of large and mediumsized mammals, may be excluded by an increased human presence both in the form of maintenance crews and hikers and nature lovers encouraged by increased access along roads and tracks. Iberian Wolf Canis lupus signatus in Portugal is a case in point (see Box 10.1 in Volume 1, Chapter 10). An indirect benefit may be predatorfree space for ground nesting birds, leading to improved survival and reproductive success, as appears to be shown by Winder et al. (2014) for Greater PrairieChicken Tympanuchus cupido.;A number of the actual or potential indirect effects linked to anthropogenic structures and construction activity are not exclusively associated with wind farms, but are typical of most, if not all, large development projects. As such, the reviews of potential effects upon groups such as reptiles and amphibians, invertebrates and mammals were largely based on the literature available from other developments with similar attributes. The point is that the interest in the interactions between wind energy and wildlife may be promoting a more intensive investigation of possible and potentially complex indirect impact pathways than has been previously undertaken. This is worthwhile in the sense that some indirect effects may ultimately prove to be more pervasive and persistent than the more obvious direct pathways