The usual starting point in creating a sensitivity map is selection of the species or habitats for inclusion (Anderson et al. 1999). This should involve consideration of both conservation status and susceptibility to the effects of wind farm developments, principally collision risk and disturbance displacement. For bird species, the susceptibility to effects of wind farm development reviewed in Langston and Pullan (2003) has been updated by Gove et al. (2013),with a summary of various literature also provided in EC (2010). For bats, Rodrigues et al. (2008) provide a list of sensitive species. Sensitivity maps for birds, for example, may be based on designated sites, migration routes, breeding or wintering locations, roost sites and important areas for congregational breeding species such as seabirds. Maps have varied in their approach to inclusion of designated sites for the Scottish sensitivity map SPAs were included, but for the English map this was expanded to include IBAs and other protected sites (SSSIs and WeBS sites) to increase coverage for breeding and wintering waders, wintering geese and other waterfowl, and breeding seabirds. Other maps adopted different approaches to protected sites, with some including them and others not mapping them but highlighting their importance (Table 5.2).;The next stage is usually collation of data for these species, which can be time consuming depending on whether data are all centrally held and whether there are issues of data ownership. At this stage, gaps in data coverage can be identified for example, good spatial data on migration routes were lacking for the Scottish and English sensitivity maps. Depending on the size of the gaps and budget for the mapping exercise, additional surveys may be conducted at this stage, although most sensitivity maps rely on existing data. Computer modelling, that, for example, models predicting species distributions or densities based on habitat associations may be a useful tool to help refine maps for species, species groups or areas where data are incomplete (PearceHiggins et al. 2008).;Once species locations, for example nesting or roosting sites, have been plotted in a GIS system, the next decision is within what distance of these locations to classify as being sensitive to wind farm development. This may involve reviewing the literature on factors such as conservation status, home range sizes, sensitivity to collision and disturbance displacement distance, ideally from wind farms, but this could be from other forms of disturbance in the absence of wind farmspecific information. Locations can then have a buffer drawn around them reflecting the area that has been classified as sensitive, and a ranking system applied if required. Ranking systems have varied in their complexity from fairly simple (e.g. the Scottish and English sensitivity maps) to more complex (e.g. the Irish and South African sensitivity maps see Table 5.2).;Another factor to consider is spatial scale. Several maps have been at the 1 km square scale (e.g. maps for Scotland, England and Ireland) although the South African map was produced at a 5  5