Often, searches do not cover the whole area near turbines where carcasses may fall because of the difficulty and expense of searching plots that are large enough to encompass 100 of the carcasses and because there may areas within the search radius that are impractical to search owing to vegetation, uneven or dangerous ground, water or lack of landowners permission. Accurate fatality estimation requires accurate extrapolation from the searched areas to the unsearched areas. If carcasses were dispersed uniformly, then a simple area adjustment of dividing the estimated fatalities in the searched areas by the fraction of the area searched might be sufficient. However, carcass density decreases with distance from the turbine (Figure 4.1) because carcasses may be more likely to fall nearer to turbines (Hull  Muir 2010) and because carcasses are spread over greater areas at greater distances from turbines, and a simple area adjustment can yield strongly biased estimates (Huso  Dalthorp 2014). For estimates of fatality to be comparable across studies with varying sizes of search plots and varying searchable area within them, not only the area, but also the configuration and location of thesearched area relative to where carcasses are expected to fall must be taken into account (Huso  Dalthorp 2014).;Figure 4.1 Estimated carcass density as a function of distance from turbine (m) at Casselman wind farm in Pennsylvania, USA. (Reproduced with permission from Arnett et al. 2009);One approach to estimating the proportion of carcasses expected to land in the searched area is to model carcass density, accounting for detection probability, as a function of distance from the turbine. The resulting function (Figure 4.1) can then be applied to the full area surrounding a turbine, out to a distance at which the density of turbinecaused fatality is reasonably expected to be 0. Standardising in order to integrate the total volume to 1 results in a relative measure of carcass density beneath a turbine. The actual configuration of the searched area surrounding a turbine (Figure 4.2, left) can then be superimposed on this volume, and the volume beneath the searched area represents an estimate of the proportion of carcasses expected to land within it (Figure 4.2, right). In the illustrative example, only about 25 of the designated 120 m  126 m plot was searched, but, because the searched area was concentrated near the turbine where carcass densities were higher, 60 of the carcasses were expected to land in the searched area. Thus, the estimated total number of fatalities at the turbine would be the estimated total in the searched area divided by 0.6. An estimate of the variance of the proportion in the searched area can be obtained through bootstrapping (Efron  Tibshirani 1986). This approach to estimating the proportion of carcasses expected to land in the searched area can easily accommodate any size and irregular configuration of the searched area.