Overall, it is the effects on birds and bats have been the best documented and attracted the most attention (Langston  Pullan 2003 Rodrigues et al. 2008 Gove et al. 2013). However, different species may differ markedly in their sensitivity to wind farms. For example, among birds, raptors may be particularly susceptible to collision (see Chapter 8 in this volume), while geese, waders and waterfowl tend to be more sensitive to disturbance displacement (see Chapter 7 in this volume). The location of wind farms is the key factor determining their effect on birds and other biodiversity, which is sometimes termed ecological sustainability. This is demonstrated by a few, arguably inappropriately located wind farms causing significant mortalities of particular bird species, for example of Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos and other raptors at Altamont Pass in California, USA (Smallwood  Thelander 2008), Common Kestrel Falco tinnunculus and Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus at Tarifa in southern Spain (Barrios  Rodrguez 2004) and Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla on Smla in Norway (Bevanger et al. 2010 Dahl et al. 2012).;Spatial planning for wind farms can help to avoid such cases, by flagging up likely sensitivities early on and also thereby potentially speeding up the planning process. Mapping of sensitive areas for wildlife in a geographic information system (GIS) has become an essential tool in this respect as GIS can integrate and display the everincreasing volume of data that affects the environment, whether physical, environmental, social or legal. Madders and Whitfield (2006) stated The location of a wind farm is one of the few certainties known to affect the impact of a wind energy scheme on birds. Therefore, spatial models that attempt to predict areas of greatest sensitivity for birds at the landscape scale can be useful design tools, enabling developments to be located so as to minimise the potential effects on identified key species. This has been recognised outside the academic realm and is an approach favoured by the European Commission (EC) Wildlife sensitivity maps will also help to avoid potential conflicts with the provisions of article 5 of the Birds Directive and 12 and 13 of the Habitats Directive as regards the need to protect species of EU importance throughout their entire natural range within the EU (EC 2010).;The aim of this chapter was to review spatial planning for wind farms, including those in designated sites and affecting sensitive species outside these sites. A series of approaches to sensitivity mapping approaches and their strengths, limitations and applications were reviewed and discussed. While an attempt was made to include international examples, the authors experience means that the legislation referred to is generally for the European Union (EU), and examples are biased towards impacts on birds. The review of sensitivity mapping exercises conducted by BirdWatch Ireland as part of its mapping exercise, and previous reviews of spatial planning for onshore wind farms by BirdLife Europe (2011), Gove et al. (2013) and Langston (2013), were heavily drawn upon. Further insight into the approaches used was achieved by sending a survey to individuals and organisations involved in the creation of the sensitivity maps reviewed in this chapter, asking a number of questions ranging from the creation of the map to the use of the end product.