Soaring birds are often attracted to areas providing local updraughting winds to subsidise soaring and gliding flight activity (Bohrer et al. 2012). On the island of Hitra in central Norway, both Golden and Whitetailed Eagles make active use of such local updraughts. This makes them vulnerable to collision with wind turbines located in areas with thermal and orographic lifting. As part of the research project INTACT assessing mitigation options for wind farms, a geographic information system (GIS) model was developed to identify such areas. Thermal lifting is caused by columns of rising air that are formed on the ground through the solar warming of the surface. The lifting velocities in thermal updraughts can be estimated from the surface to air heat flux derived from remotely sensed Landsat land surface temperature and air properties (Bohrer et al. 2012 Walawender et al. 2012). Locations with high thermal updraught velocities are typically found on flat areas and southfacing slopes with high albedo properties (Figure 6.2a). Orographic lifting (ridge lift) is caused by rising air on the windward side of a slope, which is strongest on steep ridges and mountain slopes (4590 degrees ascent) oriented perpendicular to prevailing wind directions (Figure 6.2b). Orographic updraught velocities can be estimated from actual wind speed and direction, terrain slope and aspect (Bohrer et al. 2012). The location of both thermal andorographic updraughts will vary on a daily basis with local weather conditions. The lifting potential of such updraughts is species specific with respect to wing loading (Shannon et al. 2003 Bohrer et al. 2012). Pennycuick (2008) calculated the minimum and optimal required thermal updraught speeds needed to avoid sinking downwards in the upward air current (e.g. Common Gull Larus canus 0.40.5 ms Whitetailed Eagle 0.60.7 ms Carrion Crow Corvus corone 0.70.9 ms). Mapping risk enhancing topography that attracts soaring birds can improve micrositing assessments by enabling riskevasive placement of turbines in the landscape.;Figure 6.2 (a) Estimated thermal updraught velocity and (b) orographic updraught velocity of westerly winds, both expressed in metres per second, in the Hitra wind farm, central Norway. The green dots indicate the turbine locations.;Wind farm design may also consider enhancing permeability to migratory birds by increasing the spacing between rows of turbines to create flight corridors or dividing the wind farm in separate clusters (Winkelman 1992 Langston  Pullan 2003). Movement models can provide insight into and identify possible impacts of offshore wind farms before construction, although changing the design of a wind farm by placing turbines in tight clusters had limited efficacy (Masden et al. 2012). Although clustering turbines reduces the total impact area, this would mean that the entire area may not be accessible to (displaced) birds if the spacing between turbines was reduced accordingly. However, this seems unlikely to occur, considering the trend towards greater spacing with increasing turbine size with respect to turbine efficiency (through minimising wake effects) to optimise site capacity.