Unless a special effort is made to map bird flights during visual scans, use rates are simply counts of birds out to a certain distance over a certain time (scenario A in Figure 1.1). The resulting use rates represent the areas on a map between the observation station and maximum survey radius. To obtain comparable use rates per observation station, that is, rates based on equitable detection probabilities related to the distance between the bird and the observer, survey stations can be dedicated to each candidate wind turbine site with a sufficiently short maximum survey radius to detect most of the available birds (scenario B in Figure 1.1). This approach, however, will survey ample airspace where counted birds will not be exposed to collision risk. Therefore, survey efforts can be directed to candidate wind turbine sites (scenario C in Figure 1.1) to quantify passage rates, as suggested by Morrison (1998), but this approach would require many surveys and lots of time per turbine to quantify use rates. A more costeffective approach would be to visually track individual birds to overlay their mapped flight paths on to an analytical grid consisting of cells associated with terrain attributes (scenario D in Figure 1.1). The latter approach can lead to predictive models, which can then be extended across the study area to all candidate wind turbine sites for the purpose of micro siting. This latter approach also permits sampling instead of complete survey coverage of the study area, so long as the sampled survey areas represent the terrain and wind conditions across the rest of the study area and so long as wind and terrain variables are reasonably predictive of passage rates or behaviourspecific passage rates.;Sampling for use rates was the approach applied qualitatively to more carefully site wind turbines and predict impacts at the Buena Vista Wind Energy project (LamphierGregory et al. 2005), and quantitatively at the Tres Vaqueros Wind Energy project (Smallwood  Neher 2010a) and the Vasco Winds Energy project (Smallwood  Neher 2010b). The use rates used for the initial collision hazard model development were derived from a hybrid of scenarios A and D shown in Figure 1.1. Specifically, they were on theminute mapped locations (counts) of birds tracked across the large survey plot and having performed specific behaviours. Sampling for behaviourspecific passage rates was the approach applied quantitatively to microsite wind turbines in the Golden Hills, Golden Hills North and Patterson Pass wind farms according to scenario D (see Chapter 17 in this volume for predictive models developed for these wind farms).