The site is relatively flat and dominated by Maize (corn) Zea mays and Soya Bean (soybean) Glycine max fields, with only 5 forest or human development (Figure 2.3). A 90 m radius circle was cleared of crops surrounding the base of each wind turbine. Daily fatality searches were conducted along transects spaced every 4 m. The radar unit was positioned to view the rotorswept area of one of the three turbines each night and rotated among turbines on a nightly basis. Acoustic detectors were positioned on the top of the wind turbines, pointing up and towards the back of the nacelle. Thermal video cameras were positioned 12 m fromthe base of the turbine and imaged approximately twothirds of the rotorswept area.;Each of the methods differed in their detection range and number of targets observed at the three wind turbines. Approximately 1 million nocturnally active vertebrates were detected within the rotorswept zone in the study. The vast majority of targets were presumed to be birds, based on flight characteristics. Of the 1,261 thermal video observations, 993 (n79) were identified as bats. Nacellemounted acoustic detectors recorded 695 bat passes, the majority of which were characteristic of migratory species 19 (n131) were identified as Hoary Bats 39 (n271) were lowfrequency calling bats similar to Hoary Bats and Silverhaired Bats and 42 (n293) were highfrequency calling bats, such as Eastern Red Bats, Tricolored Bats Perimyotis subflavus and Evening Bats Nycticeius humeralis. Only 12 carcasses were recovered during fatality monitoring, of which 10 (n83) were migratory bats, including 8 Eastern Red Bats and 2 Silverhaired Bats.;Figure 2.3 Researchers preparing transects for carcass searches, and identifying locations for groundbased acoustic detector and thermal camera stations at an operational wind farm in Indiana, USA. (Cris D. Hein, Bat Conservation International);Despite millions of targets recorded by radar, most of which were birds, few were observed with thermal cameras, suggesting that birds may not interact with turbines in the same way as bats. Most thermal video observations (n874, 88) involved bats moving towards the turbine. Bat video observations were more frequent during low wind speeds and greater moon illumination. Bats approached from the leeward side when wind speed was