Advances in thermal imaging technology have increased the resolution and made it possible to clearly distinguish bats from other nocturnal targets at distances up to 150 m at a reduced costand ease of logistics (Figure 2.4). Small size and portability also facilitate the use of these devices, but data storage requirements can be high and analysis time is likely to be extensive (Arnett et al. 2007). Deployment of these tools requires adequate knowledge and training of individuals charged with their use and maintenance, the need for periodic calibration, and a full understanding of the limits of detection. Monitoring turbines requires a compromise between the field of view and resolution, and in some cases more than one camera per turbine is required to capture different fields of view or allow for stereo estimation of distance with threedimensional reconstruction of flight (Arnett et al. 2007). As the technology advances, with an associated improvement in analytical software, and costs decrease, every effort should be made to increase sample size and better account for spatial and temporal variation in bat activity and behaviour. Although valuable on its own, thermal imaging may be most effective when combined with other technologies and methodologies, including acoustic detectors, radar and fatality monitoring.;During pre or postconstruction monitoring the capture of bats may be required to confirm the presence of an imperiled species, or identify bats that are difficult to distinguish by their echolocation calls (Strickland et al. 2011 PGC 2013) (Table 2.2). Captured bats allow the researcher to identify the species, sex, relative age and reproductive condition of the bat, and collect tissue samples that can be used for stable isotope and DNA analysis (Kunz et al. 2007a 2009b). Detailed demographic data and tissue samples are necessary to assess the geographic origin of individuals, longterm population trends, including possible changes in sex and age ratios, breeding condition, population size and genetic variation in response to adverse impacts, such as wind energy development. Having bats in the hand also allows tracking devices to be attached (see Tagging and tracking, below).;Bats can be caught using a number of different devices such as mistnets or harp traps (Kunz et al. 2009a). As with acoustic surveys, mistnetting should account for both spatial and temporal variation, by placing nets in different habitat conditions and heights, and conducting multiple surveys across the breeding and migratory seasons. The level of effort required will vary with the species of interest, habitat, time of year and other factors (Strickland et al. 2011). Longterm monitoring stations can be used