Decommissioning includes both the endoflife removal (and recycling) of all structures, including wind turbines, power lines and cables, access roads and buildings, and thereby the restoration of the area to its original condition without leaving visible traces in the landscape and removing all significant environmental impacts. Restoration may also aim to mitigate impacts on hydrology, habitats and the landscape, as well as environmental remediation of pollutants and hazardous waste. Although the technical side of the restoration phase may be completed within a limited timeframe, the ecological conversion of the wind farm footprint to its original condition may take much longer. The longterm ecological restoration of the wind farm footprint is often not regarded as an issue in EIA and public debates (Welstead et al. 2013), the general assumption being that the removal and covering up of the structures removes any negative impacts. However, removal of the structures, capping with topsoil with a native seed bank and reestablishment of the original vegetation does not necessarily mean that the habitat of the impacted bird species has recovered to its original condition. In addition, the surrounding landscape may have undergone more or less permanent changes during the 25year operational phase of the wind farm, such as peripheral infrastructural development and land use changes due to increased access to the adjacent landscape. Given that a permit is given for a limited period such as 25 years, restoration will need to start in the planning and design phase as all construction will, or should, be temporary in nature (SteckyEfantis 2013 Welstead et al. 2013). Thus, access roads, buildings and foundation pads will need to be constructed without destroying the site irreversibly from the onset. In addition, the reuse of local original top soils set aside during the construction phase may provide the material to cap foundation bases with native seed banks to catalyse the revegetation process (Aradottir  Hagen 2013). The optimal approach to restoration is likely to be highly site specific, whereby the interventions required for restoration will need to be offset against their disturbance potential at the site in question (i.e. removal versus abandonment) (Welstead et al. 2013). Finally, it is important to include postrestoration monitoring of the development of the restored habitat over time, and possible further required improvements, as part of the decommissioning phase (Aradottir  Hagen 2013 Welstead et al. 2013). Ensuring that a site is restored to its preconstruction condition requires that developers complete their obligations for endoflife wind farm decommissioning. This can be financially secured through decommissioning bonds (Ferrell  DeVuyst 2013).