FL likelihood values were summed across predictor variables contributing to a speciesspecific model. In earlier efforts to develop FL models for Golden Eagle and Redtailed Hawk in other parts of the APWRA, natural breaks were used to divide the summed valuesinto four classes, but the percentages of study area composing these classes remained consistent despite use of natural breaks. Therefore, class divides at 63.5, 83.5 and 95.5 were adopted, which were the divides typically arrived at using natural breaks. Class 1, including FL likelihood values below 63.5 (i.e. 63.5 of the study area), represented the suite of grid cells including fewer raptor events other than expected. Class 2, including FL likelihood values between 63.5 and 83.5 (i.e. 20 of the study area), represented the suite of grid cells including about equal or slightly greater than equal raptor events other than expected. Class 3, including FL likelihood values between 83.5 and 95.5 (i.e. 12 of the study area), represented the suite of grid cells including more raptor events other than expected. Class 4, including the upper 4.5 of FL likelihood values, represented the suite of grid cells including substantially more raptor events other than expected.;The performance of each model was assessed by the magnitude of the ratio of the observed number to the expected number of events of a particular type occurring within the suite of conditions specified by each FL surface class. Types of events included fatality rates, flights less than 180 m above ground, flights across ridge features and less than 180 m above ground, social interactions leading to distraction while flying and wind turbine interaction events. For the purposes of this chapter, FL surface models were projected across the Contra Costa County portion of the APWRA (although they were later projected across wind project areas).;The Golden Eagle FL model was composed of nine collision hazard membership functions, including six with fuzzy boundaries (Table 7.2). Membership functions performed well against their respective predictor variables (Figure 7.7). Golden Eagle flights and wind turbine interactions occurred disproportionately over ridges oriented generally westeast. Associations were also strong with subwatershed slopes facing westerly directions, especially west southwest. Eagles also flew dangerously close to wind turbines disproportionately over breaks in slope, as indicated by grid cells that were relatively shallow compared to the overall slope from valley bottom to ridge top (slope to gross slope ratio). In addition, Golden Eagles flew dangerously close to wind turbines disproportionately at 84100 up the slope, and at 55100 up the slope of major terrain features.