Weaknesses of radar include the inability in many cases to identify targets to species level, and bias in estimating distributions of flight heights due to ground clutter and other sources of low altitude interference. Radar requires clear weather (Hanowski  Hawrot 2000), so can bias observations towards conditions that pose less collision risk to birds. It also suffers a similar decline in detection rates with increasing distance from the radar as experienced with visual scans. The most important weakness isinsufficient verification that the number of targets per hour detected by radar can predict fatality rates at wind farms or wind turbines. However, knowing the species using roosting and feeding sites on opposite sides of a wind farm, or the species typically migrating over the area during a particular time of year, and visually verifying radar targets to species level can greatly improve the utility of radar (Dirksen et al. 2007 VillegasPatraca et al. 2014).;Mabee et al. (2006) used radar to evaluate avian passage rates and flight heights of nocturnal migrants over a proposed wind farm, although the passage rates were incomparable to passage rates measured by radar elsewhere and it was unclear whether the results of the study influenced micrositing. May et al. (2009) used radar to detect bird movements across an existing wind farm. They established which tracks related to Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla killed by wind turbines by filtering those tracks ending within 50 m of a wind turbine. All such tracks were made during late evening and early morning, which indicates the appropriate timing of use or behaviour surveys.;Telemetry tracking of individual birds has been used to estimate home ranges, habitat use, terrain associations and flight paths of Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos, Griffon Vulture and other birds susceptible to wind turbine collisions. It is thus useful in scenario D in Figure 1.1, albeit without knowing interactions with other birds, although flight height may be recorded with altimeters within tags (Cleasby et al. 2015) and some behaviours such as foraging may be inferred from flight patterns and tag signal patterns (Perrow et al. 2006 Cleasby et al. 2015). Following the lead of Perrow et al. (2006) in their use of radiotelemetry to establish distance buffers between offshore wind turbines and foraging Little Terns Sternula albifrons, Watson et al. (2014) used Global Positioning System (GPS) transmitters on ten Golden Eagles to estimate home ranges, and terrain associations to recommend wind energy buffers from nest sites. Mammen et al. (2009) used radiotelemetry on Red Kites Milvus milvus in Germany to also estimate home range size and recommend buffer distance around nest sites. Grajetzky et al. (2009) used radiotelemetry on Montagus Harriers Circus pygargus to estimate home range overlap into a wind farm and to estimate the distribution of flight heights on that wind farm. Miller et al. (2014) compared resource selection estimates of 30 Golden Eagles tracked with GPS transmitters to assess the risk of collision with wind farms