The improved collision hazard models are still deficient, on their own, for wind turbine siting. Given the millions of grid cells scored over a complex terrain, scatterings of anomalous results are inevitable. Interpreting collision hazard maps that include this noise requires understanding of collision risk in order to guide the wind companies. This includes warning the companies against siting turbines in narrow gaps between areas mapped as the higher hazard classes 3 or 4, because siting should err on the side of caution. There is a need to be wary of terrain conditions that will result in severe cutting into slopes to accommodate turbine pads and access roads. The larger the wind turbine being installed, the larger the pad area required for the installation. Grading for the pad can alter the local terrain, thereby altering the collision hazard from the hazard class that had been mapped. Finally, certain terrain featuresshould always be avoided for turbine siting regardless of what the mapbased collision hazard maps indicate, including valley bottoms, ravines, ridge saddles, apices of concave slopes oriented towards or away from prevailing winds, breaks in slope and proximity to rock formations.;Another lesson learned was how nearby terrain can affect the collision risk of a particular site. A small ridge feature or berm immediately upwind of a wind turbine could force birds to a flight altitude equal to the wind turbines rotor, resulting in high collision risk despite a low collision hazard assigned by the models. The topographic context of any proposed wind turbine site needs to be considered in light of how that context will affect avian flight behaviours.;The suite of siting constraints due to existing conditions also challenges siting wind turbines to minimise collision risk. Wind turbines cannot be built on all terrain or soils, on buried pipelines, electrical lines or communication cables. Setback is often required near residences, property lines, public roads, transmission lines, microwave beams and military installations. Spacing between turbines is needed to avoid rotor wake interference. Siting requires a sharing of objectives and barriers to those objectives between the wind project developers and the biologists attempting to minimise collision risk. In addition, the predictive models compete with each other across species, so the ideal siting for Golden Eagle will sometimes conflict with minimising collision hazard to Redtailed Hawk. Collision hazard models should be viewed as one of several tools to help guide the careful siting of wind turbines, but the understanding of avian behaviours gained from developing the models provides the most effective tool. Difficult choices must be made at the end of the process because once a wind project has reached this stage the wind turbines have to be located somewhere.;Collision hazard models have contributed to wind turbine siting as part of repowering half of the APWRAs capacity. The models developed performed well for Golden Eagles and moderately well for Redtailed Hawks at the Buena Vista repowering project, where wind turbines had been sited naively to the models because siting preceded modelling. At Vasco Winds, where wind turbines were sited to avoid collision hazard classes 3 and 4 based on an earlier iteration of the models than those described in this chapter, fatality rates were reduced by 80 for Golden Eagle and 40 for Redtailed