Various radar technologies are available, including marine radar, NextGeneration Radar (NEXRAD) and tracking radar. Marine radar, originally designed for use on boats, is commonly used in the USA to study passage rates, flight paths and altitudes of targets at a specific project site during spring and autumn migration (Mabee  Cooper 2004 Mabee et al. 2006b) (Figure 2.2). These systems are relatively inexpensive, are available off the shelf, require little modification or maintenance, and are dependable, easy to operateand highly portable (Kunz et al. 2007a). When in surveillance mode, that is, when the antenna is in the horizontal position, the radar collects data on flight direction, flight speed and passage rates. Alternatively, when the antenna is in the vertical position, the radar unit can record flight altitudes of moving targets. To collect both sets of data, radar studies alternate between positions while sampling, or use two antennae simultaneously.;NEXRAD is a network of weather stations distributed across the USA and operated by the National Weather Service (Kunz et al. 2007a). NEXRAD data are freely available and can be used to study broader scale patterns of migration, colony location and emergence patterns, and the location of stopover sites during migration, and to assess the effects of weather on these behaviours (Diehl et al. 2003 Gauthreaux  Belser 2003 Diehl  Larkin 2004). Horn and Kunz (2008) used NEXRAD to study the relative colony size, direction of movement, speed of dispersion and altitude gradients from six large colonies of bats emerging from caves and bridges in southcentral Texas. Their results indicated cyclical changes in annual colony size and high directionality of nightly dispersal regardless of wind direction. Despite some advantages to the use of NEXRAD, this radar network is limited in its ability to distinguish among targets and cover all altitudes. The combination of being confined to fixed locations, the angle of the antenna relative to horizontal, and the curvature of the earth prevents coverage at or below turbine height and overshoots the flight path of most nocturnally migrating vertebrates beyond 40 km from the station (Strickland et al. 2011). Thus, NEXRAD data should be used in specific situations and not for every wind farm study.