Hidden in this practice of lumping species is the fact that standard use surveys are entirely unsuitable for indicating the relative abundance of Burrowing Owls. Scientific surveys for Burrowing Owls consist of pedestrian transects followed by monitoring of suspected nest sites using binoculars from hides (Smallwood et al. 2013). Winter surveys are pedestrian only, and it is widely known that only about 10 of Burrowing Owls will be detected during winter surveys. Also, Burrowing Owls in hilly terrain are difficult to see from observation stations atop prominent positions on the landscape, where stations are often situated for use surveys.;The other high raptor fatality rate in Figure 1.11 was from High Winds, where the estimated 0.967 American Kestrel fatalities per megawatt in 2004 composed 79 of the raptor fatalities. Inter annual fatality rates of American Kestrel varied at Diablo Winds (range 00.366 fatalities per megawatt per year over 5 years), and if this level of variation occurs at High Winds, then much lower fatality rate estimates may have been recorded using different years. In short, the approach used for predicting raptor fatality rates at wind farms was primarily based on two separate species at two sites, which seems unlikely to be suitable for predicting the fatality rate of Redtailed Hawk, Ferruginous Hawk Buteo regalis or Golden Eagle at other wind farms.;Additional predictive models have been reported of raptor fatality rates regressed on raptor use rates, but they have simply added data points to those in Figure 1.11. To try to improve the relationship between fatality rates and preconstruction use rates, all available reports of use and fatality monitoring across North America were consulted and the respective data plotted. The number of fatalities per megawatt per year did not increase with increasing pre construction use rates for all birds pooled together, although it did increase significantly with increasing preconstruction use rates for all raptors (Figure 1.12). Among important species, the relationship was significant for Redtailed Hawk and American Kestrel (Figure 1.12) but not for Golden Eagle Y  0.003  0.043X r2  0.07, root mean square error (RMSE)  0.03, P0.05. However, the coefficients of determination were small and the regression models were generally weak.