The first part of this volume focused on the many potential effects upon a wide range of wildlife, including flora and fauna, vertebrates and invertebrates, across a number of trophic levels from herbivores to top predators (Box 9.1). As is clear from the 18 previous chapters in this volume, a substantial knowledge base has been gathered to qualify and quantify the effects upon wildlife, with the ultimate aim of supporting sustainable wind energy planning, although some aspects will still be debated or remain unknown (Schuster et al. 2015). Other than this book, the use of further synergies, coupled with enhanced data handling, can add further value to both current and future research findings (Box 9.2). The key challenge then remains to actually achieve the winwin situation for wind and wildlife (Kiesecker et al. 2011). To do this, there has to be effective use of the mitigation hierarchy, whereby impacts are avoided wherever possible, minimised and reduced, and compensated for where unavoidable impacts remain. Mitigation measures are listed in state and federal documents within guidelines, regulations and policies, and are dependent upon the country, state or region under which a wind project may fall (Gartman et al. 2014). From these mitigation measures within diverse policy instruments, various planning practices have been created, although no standard has been set. Spatial planning and siting has become the most crucial step in ensuring the highest netpotential gains of renewable energy while ensuring environmental protection, the safety of wildlife and social acceptance. Spatial and zoning plans can guide environmentally sound turbine siting (macrositing), either by determining areas of low conflict as priority areas for wind energy development or by excluding areas of high habitat value, such as near breeding colonies or migratory corridors of birds and bats. Identifying suitable wind farm locations from the regional to the project level supports the precautionary principle, helping to prevent the need for further costly mitigation efforts (Braunisch et al. 2015). In addition, continuous baseline studies remain key to achieving the goal of environmentally sound wind energy development not only to understand potential impacts, but also to efficiently develop and apply mitigation measures. Informed decision making at policy and planning levels can allow for efficient impact avoidance (e.g. macrositing), which could minimise mitigation needs in the future (Gartman et al. 2016a). This can be done through avoiding areas of high spatial resistance, such as breeding or roosting areas and habitats such as wetlands, conservation or protected areas, or highquality topography or landscape elements, such as ridges and valleys (Figure 9.2). It is important to further investigate areas of potential conflict, particularly for vulnerable species, which may not have been present during preconstruction monitoring, but have the possibility of being so during the operation of the wind farm.;A traditional view of the key effects of the construction and operation (and decommissioning) of wind farms upon wildlife is outlined in Volume 1, Chapter 1. During construction this includes direct and indirect impacts associated with displacement of birds and other wildlife from construction noise and activity, habitat loss and modification from installation of the wind turbines, access roads and other infrastructure. During operation, key concerns relate to the collision risk to birds and bats, and the displacement of birds if they avoid the wind farm and its surrounding area or are deterred from using their normal routes to feeding or roosting grounds, known as a barrier effect.