The main site designations in the EU are Special Protection Areas (SPAs) under the Birds Directive (Directive on the Conservation of Wild Birds, as amended, 2009147EC EU 2009), and Special Areas for Conservation (SACs), under the Habitats Directive (Directive on the Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and Flora, 9243EEC EU 1992), collectively termed Natura 2000 sites. Locations of these sites can be found at the Natura 2000 online viewer (httpnatura2000.eea.europa.eu). These sites represent some of the most important sites for biodiversity, but are not nature reserves where human activities and developments cannot occur. As such, developments within these sites often require additional more stringent tests, in the form of an Appropriate Assessment (AA) (see Spatial planning for wind farms, below) to show that any such development will not have a significant adverse impact on the site (unless there are overriding reasons of public interest and no less damaging alternative solutions). SPAs afford some of the highest protection for birds, and have been classified under the Birds Directive as the most suitable territories to deliver conservation for Annex I and regularly occurring migratory bird species, and so are more likely to be sensitive to wind farm developments than other areas. Guidance for wind farm developments in Natura 2000 sites can be found in EC (2010).;While there is no legal obligation to avoid designated sites when planning wind farm developments, BirdLife recommends avoiding them wherever possible, owing to their importance to biodiversity as outlined above (BirdLife Europe 2011). In addition to SPAs and SACs (or equivalent designations in other countries), BirdLife Europe (2011) recommends avoidance of other designated sites, such as those protected by national legislation, for example Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) in the UK, international designations such as Ramsar sites, and Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBAs) as defined by Heath and Evans (2000). The selection criteria used by BirdLife to designate IBAs in the EU were deliberately aligned with those for designating SPAs (Grimmett  Jones 1989 Heath  Evans 2000). Although they do not have the same legal protection as SPAs, the value of IBAs as a shadow list of SPAs has been recognised by the European Court of Justice and the EC in repeated cases for failure of individual states in designating sufficient SPAs (e.g. European Court of Justice 1998).