Despite millions of targets recorded by radar, most of which were birds, few were observed with thermal cameras, suggesting that birds may not interact with turbines in the same way as bats. Most thermal video observations (n874, 88) involved bats moving towards the turbine. Bat video observations were more frequent during low wind speeds and greater moon illumination. Bats approached from the leeward side when wind speed wasgreater than 1 ms and the blades were stationary or slowly moving. Nearly 50 (n423) of turbine approaches were of bats in close proximity (2 m) to the blades (n55), tower (n110) and nacelle (n258). Given the species composition of acoustic recordings and recovered carcasses, the majority of video observations are likely to be migratory bats.;Few coincident observations were made during the study. Bat passes were recorded by acoustic detectors at the same time as video observations during 218 of the 993 events. The lack of paired video and acoustic observations may be attributed to an incomplete overlap in detection area between acoustic detectors with a cone of reception above the nacelle and thermal cameras with a primary field of view below the nacelle. Furthermore, 49 (n126) of the 258 video detections of bats flying near the acoustic detectors had associated acoustic recordings, suggesting that bats may forgo echolocating when in close proximity to wind turbines. Only 18 of the 993 bat video detections were considered possible strikes. Of these, only two occurred the night before a carcass was recovered. Not finding carcasses whose time of death can be attributed to the night before may have resulted in there being so few paired video and fatality data. It is possible that carcasses were missed on the first day or scavenged before being recovered.;Despite the limited scope of inference and sample size, this study demonstrated how each component provided unique and complementary information. Overall, these data suggest that bats make up a small proportion of nocturnally active vertebrates and respond differently from birds to wind turbines by orienting towards them. The investigation of wind turbines by bats, particularly migratory bats, may be influenced by atmospheric conditions and turbine operations, and is possibly a response to structures that may potentially offer resources. Additional integrative and comparative studies are necessary, particularly in areas with different habitat conditions and species assemblages, to advance our understanding of how bats interact with wind turbines.;Nightvision goggles and nearinfrared cameras require supplementary lighting to illuminate targets. Infrared light sources or visible light sources fitted with infrared lenses can be used without attracting insects, birds or bats and have been paired with radar studies to identify and track moving targets at proposed wind farms (Mabee et al. 2006a). The need for supplementary lighting