Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) are regulatory mechanisms used to determine the impacts that a wind farm (or any significant project, for that matter) is likely to have on the environment (e.g. wildlife) and also to recommend options to avoid or mitigate potential impacts. Underlying the precautionary principle, EIAs have been established in many countries around the world. These planning instruments, and others with similar mechanisms such as the Habitats Regulation Assessment (HRA) in the EU and more generic environmental assessments, aim at the integration of environmental considerations into the decisionmaking process.;The US National Environmental Protection Act (NEPA) requires any developer to submit an environmental impact statement (EIS) or environmental assessment if any action on federal land significantly affects the environment (Geiler 2013). Similarly, in the EU the EIA Directive requires specific projects that can have significant impacts on the environment, including wind farms, to complete an impact assessment. EIA, EIS and environmental assessment are all projectlevel policies which require all environmental impacts within a project to be identified, assessed, monitored and considered in the decisionmaking process. Policy level SEA and HRA are systematic processes aiming to ensure sustainability in policy, plan and programme making (Geiler 2013). The US Bureau of Land Management (BLM) created the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) in Wind Energy Development on BLM Lands in the Western US (DOI BLM 2005). However, this is limited to wind energy developments on federal land, similar to NEPAs programmatic environmental reviews.;While EIAs are key regulatory mechanisms aiming to determine impacts and recommend options to avoid and mitigate those impacts, a concern is that these instruments fail to effectively promote sustainable wind planning (Smart et al. 2014 Thygesen  Agarwal 2014). This impairment is based not only on a lack of efficient integration of environmental considerations into the decisionmaking process, but also on the challenge of predicting and assessing the significance of potential impacts. Whereas stringent requirements for permission of developments and mitigation measures can be incorporated, the quantification of impacts on local populations remains challenging.