There are still several knowledge gaps to be filled in the immediate future, the least of which involves obtaining population estimates, to determine the efficiency and effectiveness ofmitigation strategies. Determining whether altering variables other than simply wind speed, by raising cutin speed or through low speed idling, can improve the efficacy of operational minimisation while maintaining or enhancing effectiveness is a priority. Alternative mitigation approaches to operational adjustments, such as acoustic deterrents, should be proven equally or more effective at reducing bat fatalities at operational wind farms before being accepted as viable mitigation approaches. Also, combining mitigation approaches, such as raising cutin speed and acoustic deterrents, could prove most effective at reducing bat fatalities and should be explored. Determining the ability of theoretical and habitatbased models to predict highrisk sites is another top priority if planning authorities and developers are to use such models to site wind turbines in areas with confidence. In addition, the numerous guidance documents that are available, such as Kunz et al. (2007a), Rodrigues et al. (2008) and Strickland et al. (2011), should be utilised when siting facilities and conducting pre and postconstruction monitoring and research.;A number of policy, regulatory and communication challenges need to be faced in protecting bats while developing wind energy responsibly across the globe (Arnett 2012). Unless there is a governmentbased nexus, most research, siting and mitigation efforts by wind farm developers and operating companies will be voluntary, and probably without regard for cumulative effects (Arnett 2012). The likelihood of miscommunication or no communication at all is of concern. Stronger coordination is essential, and perhaps policy revisions and regulation may be necessary in most parts of the world, especially where wildlife agencies have little or no authority in decision making or no protection for bats among other wildlife exists (Arnett 2012). Decision making must be grounded in the best available science. Consistent policy, accountability, effective siting and mitigation strategies, and a level playing field for the industry in the form of consistent requirements and incentives for all companies are fundamental if we are to successfully develop wind energy that minimises bat fatalities and impacts to other wildlife.;This manuscript was greatly improved by the review of Martin Perrow. I wish to thank WEST Inc. for sharing reports. I also wish to thank Oliver Behr, Robert Brinkmann and their colleagues for sharing their information on a case study on algorithms they