To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgments and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results, Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over the two volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whilst others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides a 300 word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themesprovide the main body of the text, generally divided into as few subheading levels as possible. Division between effects during construction and operation was generally avoided as this increased the number of subheadings and led to unwieldy structure. Any clear differences in effects between different stages of wind farm construction and operation are incorporated into specific sub headings.;As well as being liberally decorated with tables, figures and especially photographs, which are reproduced in colour courtesy of sponsorship by Vattenfall, most chapters also contain Boxes of information. These were designed to be provide particularly important examples of a particular point or case or suffice as an all round exemplar and standalone from the text. In some cases, these have been written by an invited author(s) with the principal that it is better to see the words from the hands of those involved that to paraphrase published studies. Boxes also provided an opportunity to widen the geographic spread of information in the chapter.;I take any deficiencies in the scope and content in this and its sister volume to be my responsibility, particularly as both closely align to my original vision, and many authors have patiently tolerated and incorporated my sometimes extensive editorial changes to initial outlines and draft manuscripts. My sincere thanks to all 15 chapter authors and 15 additional Box (case study) authors for their contributions. From my perspective, at least, there can be no satisfaction without at least a little pain. I hope the authors feel the same. I also hope that these volumes are a further step towards the sustainable development of wind farms and the ultimate goal of winwin1 scenario for renewable energy and wildlife;1Kiesecker, J.M., Evans, J.S., Fargione, J., Doherty, K., Foresman, K.R., Kunz, T.H., Naugle, D., Nibbelink, N.P.  Niemuth, N.D. (2011) Winwin for wind and wildlife a vision to facilitate sustainable development. PLoS ONE 6 e17566.