When observation stations are located on hill peaks, some birds will be seen downslope from the observer and will have terrain or vegetation backgrounds. When stations are located on slopes, valley bottoms or flat terrain, many birds will be seen above the horizon and will have a sky background. It can be difficult to detect birds against a terrain or vegetation background, but at certain times of day and angles to the sun, it can also be difficult to detect birds against a sky background. Variation in background due to variation in terrain and locations of observation stations on that terrain are likely to translate to variation in detection rates and in estimated use rates. This variation can bias or add uncertainty to estimated use rates, and so should be investigated. It is the likely reason for use rates serving as poor predictors of fatality rates (de Lucas et al. 2008 Ferrer et al. 2012).;To begin examining whether the proportion of sky background affected detection rates of Golden Eagle, APWRA observation stations were divided into two groups, one group amid the larger hills along the western and middle portions of the APWRA, and the other group amid the smaller hills along the easterncentral portion of the APWRA. Eagle densities were known to be similar in the two landscapes. Observers performing surveys in the larger hills will often look downwards into canyons because the stations tend to be located on prominences and raptors often fly relatively low to the ground. In the smaller hills, observers will rarely look down to see birds because there is little to no airspace lower than the observers at these stations. Differences in the patterns of the data suggested that Golden Eagles in the larger terrain were more difficult to detect beginning at 244 m (8 radial bands) from the observer (Figure 1.10). The observers detected about the same number of Golden Eagles out to 213 m (7 radial bands in Figure 1.10), whether in small hills or large hills, but at 244 m and farther the observers saw more eagles over the small hills. Golden Eagles appear to be easier to detect with a sky background. Focused research is needed to more carefully quantify differences in detection rates before resulting use rates can be compared and interpreted with any confidence.