These data also demonstrate that bat fatalities at wind farms in Germany affect not only sedentary bats, but also individuals originating from large catchment areas up to several hundred kilometres away. The impact on longdistant migrants is of particular concern given that animals that migrate tend to be more vulnerable to extinction than sedentary bats, because birth rates and recruitment can be lower in suboptimal habitats (Pimm et al. 1988). Consequently, wind turbinerelated fatalities may be more significant for northern populations. Thus, wind turbine related fatalities are not solely a local issue and will requireinternational cooperation to minimise and mitigate the impacts.;A wealth of information can be gained from fatality searches, but pairing this method with other techniques can advance our understanding of bat and wind turbine interactions. The most powerful tool to evaluate bat behaviour near wind turbines is direct observation using thermal video cameras. Acoustic detectors have their place in assessing potential changes in bat activity patterns once wind turbines are present and operational, and during post construction applications, can provide realtime conditions when bats are interacting with wind turbines. Radar can be used to compare pre and postconstruction patterns at a larger scale and determine whether bats are reacting to wind turbines or wind farms and changing direction or altitude as a result.;It is not necessary to use each technique listed above at every proposed or operational wind farm, and the methods used should depend on the research questions posed before the study. However, no single method can, by itself, fully assess the spatiotemporal variation in bat activity or behaviour. Thus, a combination of techniques, including ultrasonic acoustic detectors, radar, thermal imaging, capture methods and fatality monitoring, may be necessary to understand how bats or their habitats may be impacted by wind farm development and operation (Kunz et al. 2007a) (Box 2.1). Each device or method has its own strengths, biases and levels of inference, and it is essential for field researchers to understand and articulate these (Kunz et al. 2007a Strickland et al. 2011). Given the variability among site conditions, it is not appropriate to prescribe a one size fits all protocol for pre and postconstruction monitoring studies. However, basic tenets can be followed, such as monitoring across the range of habitats at the site or during times when bats are active and potentially at risk. In short, studies should be designed such that they withstand scientific scrutiny and are publishable.;Acoustic and fatality monitoring should be standard practice at all wind farms to assess potential risk and provide data on the spatiotemporal patterns of activity and fatality at a site, particularly in regions where little information is available. If sensitive species are known or suspected to be present, then additional methods, such as mistnetting or roost monitoring, may be necessary. Advanced technologies, including radar and infrared imaging, also