Software for calculating estimates is available for several estimators, including Fatality Estimator (Huso et al. 2012), the R packages fatalityCMR (Pron  Hines 2013) and carcass (Korner Nievergelt et al. 2015), Evidence of Absence (Dalthorp et al. 2014) and Wildlife Fatality Estimator (Bio3 Lda 2015). BUGS code of an example mixture model is also provided in the addon material of KornerNievergelt et al. (2013). The programming skills and in depth knowledge of the methodological details of fatality estimation required of the user vary greatly among these programs. For example, Fatality Estimator (Huso et al. 2012) and Evidence of Absence (Dalthorp et al. 2014) require the user to provide estimates of a explicitly, and the R package carcass (KornerNievergelt et al. 2015) provides a collection of empirical and theoretical spatialdistributions to help the user to estimate a, whereas the other software programs estimate fatality only for the searched area, assuming that the user will further account for unsearched area independently.;An alternative approach is the use of integrated models that combine models for the carcass arrival process, such as a Poisson model, with models for the carcass observation process (falling into the searched area, persisting until the search and being found by a searcher). Hidden Markov models from the markrecapture modelling framework can be adapted for such purposes (Etterson 2013 KornerNievergelt et al. 2013 Pron et al. 2013). For example, KornerNievergelt et al. (2013) modelled the carcass arrival as a latent Poisson variable and connected this latent variable via three binomial models to the observed number of carcasses, as follows (1) a binomial model for the number of carcasses falling into the search area (2) an autoregressive binomial model for the number of carcasses remaining on the ground until the next search, taking into account that some carcasses that arrived earlier are still there and (3) a binomial model for the carcasses found. Fitting such models using Bayesian methods allows integrating the estimates of parameters a, r and p by specifying specific prior distributions for the respective parameters in the observation process part of the model. Bellebaum et al. (2013) applied this approach to estimate fatality numbers of Red Kite Milvus milvus in northern Germany. The authors are not aware of any thorough methodological comparison between the estimates of the form M  Xiii and any type of hidden Markov model, although such a comparison could be of great value.;When the focus of a study is to estimate fatality of a particular species of interest, the number of observed carcasses can be very small or even zero, yet both of the Xgtype approaches described above can only return an estimate of M  0 with no variance when X  0 (Huso et al. 2015), and parameters in complex hidden Markov models can be difficult to estimate. To overcome this limitation, an alternative approach through application of Bayes formula results in a posterior probability distribution of the total abundance of carcasses (M) arriving at a site over an extended but fixed period (Dalthorp et al. 2014 Huso et al. 2015 Korner Nievergelt et al. 2015). From this distribution, two values important to conservation can be calculated (1) an estimated probability that