Collision risk modelling is applicable to both onshore and offshore wind farms, although the majority of applications described in the literature to date relate to the former. The risk of turbine collisionexists for birds and bats in flight, although the latter often suffer barotrauma rather than actual collision (see Chapter 9 in this volume). In practice, to date, prediction of collision risk has been largely limited to diurnal and crepuscular birds. This is because key inputs to collision models include either or both numbers of flights and numbers of individuals in flight for particular species. It has not generally been practicable to ascertain these for nocturnal species, including almost all bats. For simplicity, the chapter refers to birds, while recognising the potential application to bats.;This chapter offers a summary and review of collision risk modelling in use at the time of writing. It describes and discusses conceptual aspects that are common to various collision risk models and those that differentiate them. A literature review was undertaken to encompass published information available to the end of January 2016. The chapter is thus focused on six models either published in the peerreviewed literature or otherwise known to be in use and for which details are available. Some theoretical models that have been developed as academic exercises or are otherwise available in the grey literature, but have not been widely applied, are not included in this discussion. Examples are included to illustrate various aspects and the chapter is not intended to be a comprehensive review of all the available literature. The focus is on the third type of collision risk model outlined in the Introduction, that is, predictive models designed to estimate the number of bird mortalities due to collisions with turbines for an entire wind farm. In addition, the chapter provides an overview of the relevance and application of PVA and PBR to assess populationscale impacts of mortalities at wind farms. The concepts and functions of these models have been thoroughly documented in the literature and are outlined only briefly here. Discussion of these models concentrates on the applicability, values and limitations of these when considering the population effects of turbine collisions.