Maps should be refined or updated where new data or new information on impacts of wind farms become available, but funds to do this are often limited. Some maps are continually updated, for example the Flemish map where official updates of the externally available map are carried out every 24 years by the Research Institute for Nature and Forest (Instituut voor Natuur en Bosonderzoek, INBO), with the inhouse map being continuously updated. However, most organisations do not have the capacity to do this.;The forum upon which a map is hosted, and its availability, are variable. Some, such as the Soaring Bird Sensitivity Map tool (Box 5.1) and the Irish map, are hosted on a website and openly available, along with details on the age of data, what species it refers to, and so on. While this open access is the ideal approach, the Scottish sensitivity map had to be made available by request under data licence agreement owing to the inclusion of data on some species that are sensitive to persecution.;Sensitivity mapping is generally based on birds, or occasionally bats, rather than habitat sensitivity mapping, and data on habitat can be a limiting factor. Under the EU Biodiversity Strategy to 2020, Action 5 states that Member States, with the assistance of the Commission, will map and assess the state of ecosystems and their services in their national territory by 2014 . This is referred to as MAES (Mapping and Assessment of Ecosystems and their Services), as it has particular reference to the wider countryside, that is, areas outside the Natura 2000 network. The creation of a GIS database containing this information would move the whole process of habitat protection further forward.;There can be concerns over sensitivity mapping exercises from different stakeholder perspectives. Developers may be concerned that maps will represent nogo areas that cannot be contested. However, this is very rarely the case, which should be carefully highlighted, and that the map is intended for guidance. Conversely, conservationists may be concerned that rating an area with low or unknown sensitivity will represent a green light to development, when gaps in the data or the age of some of the data mean that the maps cannot be used at this sitespecific level. Again, any such issues should be highlighted wherever the map is hosted.