Preconstruction survey effort across North America declined rapidly with increasing study area size (Figure 1.5), indicating a potential bias. The potential for a bias due to differential survey effort was supported by the greatest variation in use rates being reported among the smaller study areas (Figure 1.6). In otherwords, as study area size increased, levels of survey effort decreased and the number of birds seen per hour also decreased.;Survey duration ranged from 3 minutes to 360 minutes, and averaged 29 minutes among baseline studies and 35 minutes among postconstruction surveys across North America. No adjustments have been made for trends in use or behaviour observation rates with time into the survey session. That is, little or nothing is known of any bias introduced by varying the survey session duration among studies.;No effort has yet been made to quantify observer effects. Observers in the APWRA have often seen birds react to observers, such as Golden Eagles leaving the survey area when an observer reaches for the binoculars. Some birds approach observers and circle overhead. Others may change their behaviours in ways that could never be attributed to observer interference. The use of hides (blinds) may help to minimise observer effects, but these can be difficult to manage in windy environments. When possible, siting observation stations near existing infrastructure can help to provide some cover for observers, such as between the truck and transformer, wind turbine or meteorological tower.;Figure 1.5 Survey effort generally related inversely to the anticipated size of the wind farm in North America, whether survey effort was measured as r2 among plots, where r was total survey hours per plot per hectare of wind farm size.;There has been no reported effort to quantify the effects of variation in the number of target species during use or behaviour surveys. The degree to which use counts will be biased low by including all species in the counts, as opposed to only raptors or only one type of raptor, remains unknown. In the case of APWRA behaviour surveys, the protocol encourages observers to track one