The placement of the turbines within the landscape minimises the exposure of birds to the hazard posed by the turbines. Developers typically seek to locate turbines where wind conditions and interturbine spacing are optimal with respect to wind capture and wake effects (Serrano Gonzlez et al. 2014). During the design phase, micrositing can simultaneously take into account locations with bird concentrations or increased exposure to collisions (Bohrer et al. 2013 Liechti et al. 2013). This can help in minimising displacement due to disturbance and barrier effects as well as collision risk. Several studies have shown an uneven distribution of utilisation and fatalities within the footprint of wind farms (Barrios  Rodriguez 2004 Everaert  Stienen 2006 Smallwood et al. 2007 de Lucas et al. 2012a Dahl et al. 2015). Everaert and Stienen (2006) and Everaert (2014) found an exceptionally high mortality at 4 out of 25 turbines that created a barrier between a breeding site for terns and their foraging area at Zeebrugge in Belgium. Dahl et al. (2015) found that collision fatalities were lower within 500 m of Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla nest sites at the Smla wind farm in Norway, probably due to territoriality. Burrowing Owl Athene cunicularia hypugaea flight activity and collision mortality were higher in areas with sparsely distributed turbines and endofrow turbines relative to the interior (Smallwood et al. 2007). The efficacy of micrositing of single turbines in minimising bird impacts is therefore likely to be very site and species specific. Micrositing has been proposed in agricultural areas (Mammen et al. 2011) and wetlands (Hill et al. 2011), and along ridges with many soaring and migratory raptors (Barrios  Rodriguez 2004 Smallwood  Thelander 2008 de Lucas et al. 2012b Katzner et al. 2012). Although proposed, the extent to which micrositing practice has resulted in adjusted design of wind farms remains unclear. This is probably because it is mainly promoted as part of the projectby project consenting process. Landscape features enhancing potential risk for soaring raptors and migrating birds could, however, be included in the preconstruction assessment for optimal micrositing of turbines (Box 6.3).;Soaring birds are often attracted to areas providing local updraughting winds to subsidise soaring and gliding flight activity (Bohrer et al. 2012). On the island of Hitra in central Norway, both Golden and Whitetailed Eagles make active use of such local updraughts. This makes them vulnerable to collision with wind turbines located in areas with thermal and orographic lifting. As part of the research project INTACT assessing mitigation options for wind farms, a geographic information system (GIS) model was developed to identify such areas. Thermal lifting is caused by columns of rising air that are formed on the ground through the solar warming of the surface. The lifting velocities in thermal updraughts can be estimated from the surface to air heat flux derived from remotely sensed Landsat land surface temperature and air properties (Bohrer et al. 2012 Walawender et al. 2012). Locations with high thermal updraught velocities are typically found on flat areas and southfacing slopes with high albedo properties (Figure 6.2a). Orographic lifting (ridge lift) is caused by rising air on the windward side of a slope, which is strongest on steep ridges and mountain slopes (4590 degrees ascent) oriented perpendicular to prevailing wind directions (Figure 6.2b). Orographic updraught velocities can be estimated from actual wind speed and direction, terrain slope and aspect (Bohrer et al. 2012). The location of both thermal and