It is common to place acoustic detectors on existing meteorological towers across the project area to record activity at ground level and within the lower portion of the rotorswept area (Figure 2.1). However, three or fewer towers are available at most wind farms, which severely limits the spatial distribution of detector locations at higher altitudes (USFWS 2012). All meteorological towers in a proposed wind farm should be used to record data within the rotorswept area, but if sampling at meteorologicaltowers does not adequately cover the study area or provide sufficient replication, sampling additional points using portable towers may be necessary to achieve sufficient spatial replication at a site (Arnett et al. 2006). Groundbased detectors, those positioned 12 m above ground level, can assist in assessing presence and activity patterns of species flying below the rotorswept area, but given the limitations in reception range of acoustic detectors, groundbased sampling stations cannot detect bats potentially interacting with wind turbine blades (Reynolds 2006 Kunz et al. 2007a). For example, Arnett et al. (2006) recorded 959 greater activity rate of high frequencycalling bats (with 35 kHz minimum echolocation frequency, such as Myotis spp.) than low frequencycalling bats (35 kHz minimum echolocation frequency, such as Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus) with detectors at 1.5 m above the ground. Conversely, the activity rate of low frequencycalling bats was 17210 greater than that of high frequencycalling bats at detectors 44 m above ground level, in accordance with Hoary Bats comprising the highest proportion (38) of bat fatalities recovered from wind farms across the USA and Canada compared to just 6 for the most abundant Myotis species, the Little Brown Bat M. lucifugus (Arnett  Baerwald 2013).;Figure 2.1 Two acoustic detectors set up for longterm monitoring of bat activity at two altitudes. Equipment is secured in a waterproof Pelican case and powered by a photovoltaic system. (Cris D. Hein, Bat Conservation International);Table 2.2 Synthesised recommendations for pre and postconstruction study design based on an example of regional, national and state guidelines.a