Figure 2.5 A Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus with a GPS radio tag secured to the dorsal surface with monofilament synthetic absorbable sutures. (Cris D. Hein, Bat Conservation International);Conducting roost surveys and exit counts may be necessary if an imperiled species is expected to occur on or near the proposed wind farm. Ideally, these surveys should occur before construction and ultimately provide developers with data to inform siting decisions. For example, based on available foraging range data, the USFWS recommends a 32.2 km (20 mile) buffer around Indiana Bat Myotis sodalis hibernacula (USFWS 2011). Locating and monitoring bat roosts requires an initial assessment of the existence and use of potential roost sites including mines, caves, bridges or buildings on or near the proposed wind farm (USFWS 2012). Rodrigues et al. (2015) recommends searching for potential roosts within a 2 km radius of the project site and investigating known roosts within a 5 km radius. If active bat roosts exist, roost searches and exit counts can be used to identify species composition, colony size, and behaviour and activity patterns over time (OShea  Bogan 2003). Multiple surveys within a season or over a year may be required to confirm the presence of a specific species, and the number of surveys needed to deliver a robust baseline will vary by species, sex, seasonality of use and type of roost (Sherwin et al. 2003). If roosts are relatively small, visual censuses or exit counts may be appropriate (OShea  Bogan 2003 Kunz et al. 2009b), but larger colonies may require infrared imaging cameras or radar systems to estimate size and emergence behaviour (Betke et al. 2008 Strickland et al. 2011). In either case, internal roost surveys may be required to confirm species composition, but these can only be performed by experienced researchers, as many bat species are sensitive to human disturbance, and searching caves and abandoned mines can be dangerous.;Fatality monitoring is the primary method used to assess the direct impact of wind farm development on bats, by providing fatality estimates and detailing the demographic composition of fatalities. It can be used to validate sitespecific preconstruction risk assessments and offer insight on risk associated with particular habitat types or to bat populations at local, regional or larger scales. Researchers also should take advantage of recovered carcasses and