Interactions between wind energy and wildlife have been a focus of intensive research, as an attempt to address any unintended negative sideeffects and promote a winwin situation for renewable energy and biodiversity. In quantifying the impacts of wind farms (e.g. bird collisions, bat barotrauma, displacement of birds and larger mammals), efforts to narrow knowledge gaps and provide informed decisionmaking guidance have been showcased through international symposia, and through database building and collaborative actions, landmark conferences and community building milestone research projects. This chapter aims to provide a best practice approach for environmentally sound wind energy development within the available framework of international policy, legislation and guidance. To begin, a review is provided of current wildlifesensitive planning, construction and operation measures embedded within the basic mitigation sequence to avoid, minimise, reduce and compensate impacts and ultimately restore habitats and species. The importance of sound baseline studies, impact appraisals of significance, statutory requirements, comprehensive mitigation approaches and followup processes once a permit has been issued (e.g. monitoring and adjustments) is highlighted. Spatial planning and zoning empowered by environmental and biological impact assessments can provide successful macroavoidance strategies to circumnavigate sensitive biodiversity hotspots. Microavoidance mitigation approaches, such as siting individual turbines away from bird flight lines or favoured areas (e.g. ridges) and curtailing normal turbine operation by increasing cutin speed (bats) or temporary shutdown (birds), can further minimise unintended effects. Critically, the concept ofadaptive management as a more iterative, errorfriendly method that renders adjustments along the way provides an ability to cope with remaining uncertainties. These could include unforeseen potential effects upon other flora and fauna, or indirect effects from habitat modification and changes in competitive, predatorprey and trophic interactions highlighted in previous chapters in the volume. The chapter concludes with a suggested 11point best practice approach to future planning.;The growth of wind energy is an important part of global renewable energy policy. Not only does wind energy help in limiting the impacts of climate change, but it is also one of the least damaging ways of producing energy, in terms of its impact on the environment and on various species. Nevertheless, as for many other types of largescale development, concern over environmental damage has led to intensive scrutiny of the potential impacts of wind farms upon wildlife through both direct and indirect effects (Schuster et al. 2015).;The first part of this volume focused on the many potential effects upon a wide range of wildlife, including flora and fauna, vertebrates and invertebrates, across a number of trophic levels from herbivores to top predators (Box 9.1). As is clear from the 18 previous chapters in this volume, a substantial knowledge base has been gathered to qualify and quantify the effects upon wildlife, with the ultimate aim of supporting sustainable wind energy planning, although some aspects will still be debated or remain unknown (Schuster et al. 2015). Other than this book, the use of further synergies, coupled with enhanced data handling, can add further value to both current and future research findings (Box 9.2). The key challenge then remains to actually achieve the winwin situation for wind and wildlife (Kiesecker et al. 2011). To do this, there has to be effective use of the mitigation hierarchy, whereby impacts are avoided wherever possible, minimised and reduced, and compensated for where unavoidable impacts remain. Mitigation measures are listed in state and federal documents within guidelines, regulations and policies, and are dependent upon the country, state or region under which a wind project may fall (Gartman et al. 2014). From these mitigation measures within diverse policy instruments, various planning practices have been created, although no standard has been set. Spatial planning and siting has become the most crucial step in ensuring the highest net