At the screening level, the likelihood of species occurring at a wind farm can be assessed by overlaying the proposed wind farm boundary on to maps of species geographic range and vegetation cover and comparing the cover to documented habitat associations of the species. Additional indicators include morphological and ecological factors associated with species susceptibility to wind farm impacts. Likely assessment outcomes include determinationsover whether the wind farm will come into conflict with a multitude of species or with special status species. As an aside, it is worth noting that in the EIA process in Europe, the purpose of screening would often be to indicate the species or groups potentially affected by the development (see Chapter 1 in Volume 1 of this book), which would then form the focus of the detailed assessment submitted for consent purposes. The equivalent of microassessment at the level of individual turbines may only be undertaken to form part of a mitigation package to eliminate or, more likely, reduce any impact to an acceptable level.;A macrolevel assessment includes onsite surveys to compare the relative abundance of birds at the proposed wind farm and other wind farms where fatality rate estimates have already been made. This level of assessment typically relies on diurnal use surveys. Use surveys consist of counting birds of each species during fixed periods and within a fixed maximum radius. The radius and survey time periods are fixed so that levels of survey effort can be known and used for comparing use rates over time or between places. Use rates, or the number of sightings of a species per survey or per hour, are compared to postconstruction fatality rates among wind farms where both metrics have been measured so that the use rates observed at a proposed wind farm can be used to predict a fatality rate at that wind farm (see Potential biases and sources of uncertainty in use rates, below, for further discussion of the available relationship). A typical assessment outcome includes ranking the predicted collision impacts of a proposed wind farm among existing wind farms where use rates and fatality rates were estimated. From this ranking, decisions can be made about macrositing wind energy development.;A microlevel assessment quantifies activity patterns within the proposed wind farm so that wind turbines can be installed at locations where collision impacts will be least. Use rates can crudely serve this level of assessment, so long as the observation stations are sufficiently spread throughout the study area to obtain use rates that match the spatial grain at which the collision risk of wind turbines needs to be compared (Figure 1.1). A representative spatial grain would minimally equal the wind turbines rotor diameter, but to be safe it would also include a buffer area extending perhaps to half the wind turbine manufacturers minimum spacing between its turbines. The spatial grain needed for micrositing is the space over which birds would be exposed to collision risk should a wind turbine be installed at a particular site. Candidate wind turbine sites are where use rates need quantification for micrositing.