One important objective of postconstruction monitoring is to estimate the local andor cumulative impact of wind development on a group of species or a single species of concern. This can be very difficult to ascertain when information regarding the primary forces influencing population growth or decline is lacking. Nonetheless, the first, necessary step in understanding the impact on a population or species is accurate estimation of turbinecaused fatality. Unfortunately, this is not as simple as counting carcasses beneath turbines because detection of carcasses is highly variable. If the probability of detecting a carcass were less than one but nevertheless constant among carcasses, then a simple count could serve as an index and comparisons of this index across regions, sites or turbines would be meaningful. But differential detection probability among carcasses prevents meaningful comparison of simple counts and also meaningful interpretation of proportional species representation in the carcass population. Understanding the impacts of turbinecaused fatality on populations begins with unbiased estimates of fatality that combine data from detection probability models and observed counts to estimate the total number of fatalities at a site. How best to combine these data depends on the number of carcasses observed. When the number is very small or even zero, application of Bayes formula results in a posterior probability distribution of total fatality. When the number is not small, both semiparametric and parametric approaches have been proposed, and a thorough comparison between these two would be of great value. In any case, estimates derived from observed carcass counts must account for differential probability of detection. Otherwise, meaningful comparisons of fatality rates arenot possible, yet these are critical to advancing our understanding of the impacts of wind farms and the means of minimising and mitigating their effects.;With heightened concern for the potential unintended consequences of the development of wind energy on wildlife (Kunz et al. 2007a 2007b Kiesecker et al. 2011), an accurate means of estimating turbinecaused fatality is critically needed to allow meaningful comparisons across turbines, sites and regions (Stewart et al. 2007 Piorkowski et al. 2012). It has long been recognised that simple counts of observed carcasses do not represent the total number of fatalities (Orloff  Flannery 1992) because often a high and variable proportion of the total is not detectable by searchers (Huso 2011 Piorkowski et al. 2012 WarrenHicks et al. 2013). Concern for impacts on species whose populations are at risk or in decline, such as Hawaiian Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus semotus (Frasher et al. 2007), Indiana Bat Myotis sodalis (Clawson 2002), Griffon Vulture Gyps fulvus and Tasmanian Wedgetailed Eagle Aquila audax fleayi (Bekessy et al. 2009), poses further difficulty in estimation where, in some cases, the additional annual loss of even one or two individuals to wind farms could have serious cumulative impact for species populations. Additional pressures imposed by wind farm mortality are of particular concern when populations of many bat species may be suffering declines from epizootics (Frick et al. 2010 Langwig et al. 2012) andor humancaused stresses (Pierson 1998 Racey  Entwistle 2003 Winhold et al. 2008). Similarly, additional mortality can have severe effects on declining bird populations (e.g. Carrete et al. 2010 Bellebaum et al. 2013).;The first step in understanding the impact on a population or species is accurate estimation of turbinecaused fatality at a site or region over a specified period from observed carcass counts. Fatality monitoring studies generally comprise two components the protocol used to search for and count carcasses and the protocol used to estimate detection probability of each carcass. Subsequently, estimated detection probability is used to extrapolate observed carcass counts to estimate total fatality. These two components are deeply intertwined, as the areal extent and configuration as well as frequency of searches affect detection probability, and knowledge of factors affecting detection probability informs the search protocol. Accurate estimates of detection probability will result in unbiased estimates of fatality, and higher