Widespread and often extensive fatalities of bats have increased concern about the impacts of wind farms on bats and other wildlife. Avoiding or minimising fatalities is critically important to both conservation and public acceptance of wind farms. Here, a review of options for mitigating bat fatalities at wind farms is provided. Mitigating impacts of wind farms on bats begins with assessing risk before construction of a site, but once a facility is built and operational, mitigation options are limited to curtailing turbine operations by increasing turbine cutin speed or lowspeed idling. Increasing turbine cutin speed by 1.53 metres per second or feathering blades and slowing rotor speed up to the turbine manufacturers cutin speed substantially reduces bat fatalities during predictable highrisk periods. Other mitigation approaches require further testing to determine effectiveness. Predictions of risk from habitat and species use and distribution models should be tested with fatality data gathered at wind farms from a range of conditions to determine the precision of estimated risk. Other options, such as acoustic deterrents, warrant further research and development but no such deterrents have yet proven capable as a mitigation option. Future research efforts also should evaluate incorporating covariates such as temperature and relative humidity in addition to wind speed when implementing operational mitigation, as well as using automated systems to maximise wind production while still minimising bat fatalities. Whereas gathering information on populations is important and fundamental to truly evaluating biological impacts and effectiveness of mitigation approaches, these data are not expected to be available for most species of bats in the near future. Even in the absence of population data, broad implementation of operational mitigation at wind farms globally is recommended as this offers an ecologically sound strategy for reducing bat fatalities with modest economic losses in