Avoidance rates for use in collision risk models can also be estimated from postconstruction behaviour surveys (May et al. 2010), but obviously cannot be estimated during preconstructionsurveys unless followed up by postconstruction surveys to measure differences in passage rates through the wind farm or wind turbine rotors (e.g. Hull  Muir 2013 Johnston et al. 2014). For avoidance rates to be effective, however, explicit definitions are needed, such as whether a birds avoidance action was directed towards the entire wind farm, individual wind turbines, rotors or blades or, another way of looking at it, whether the birds avoidance was measured while within the bounds of a wind farm, within a certain distance of a wind turbine, within the rotor plane of a turbine, or within a certain distance of a blade. Hull and Muir (2013) developed an explicit definition for avoidance at the wind turbine level. According to Cook et al. (2014), microavoidance is a last second action taken within 10 m of a rotor to avoid collision, meso avoidance is any behavioural response to individual turbines from the tower base to the outer reaches of the rotor, and macro avoidance is any behavioural response to the presence of the wind farm, measured from the outermost turbines. Cook et al. (2014) assigned distance thresholds to meso and macroavoidance, but the distance could change with species and with the size of wind turbines or wind farms. In addition to the need for more explicit definitions, Chamberlain et al. (2006) pointed out that avoidance behaviours may be less frequent during conditions when visual scans are not undertaken, such as during cold weather, fog, rain or darkness. Upon reviewing collision risk models, Masden and Cook (2016) advocated testing assumptions underlying the models. Owing to variation in the meaning of avoidance and the need for testing assumptions related to how birds behave while flying near wind turbines, it may be prudent to regard most avoidance rates as overoptimistic until evidence suggests otherwise.;The first objective of this chapter is to present methods used to survey wind farms for birds, particularly in relation to their susceptibility to collision impacts. Avian survey methods assessed herein were identified from accumulated worldwide literature on wind farm assessment and monitoring, but this is not exhaustive. The second objective is to assess the value of each of these methods for their comparability of rates and predictability of impacts according to the principles of wind farm assessment. The third objective is to explore sources of bias and uncertainty in estimating use rates from use surveys, which are most often used to predict impacts and sometimes subsequently applied in postconstruction