Bird and bat carcasses found near turbines have raised concerns about the potential impacts of wind power development on vulnerable species. A first step in assessing how much of a threat wind farms pose to wildlife is the estimation of how many animals are killed. Accurate estimation is more difficult than simply recording how many carcasses have been observed because the effectiveness of monitoring protocols is highly variable and the fraction of total carcasses discovered in searches can vary substantially among species, sites and years. Without accurate assessment of what fraction of carcasses is found, meaningful comparisons of fatality rates of different species or among various sites or different years are not possible, yet these comparisons are critical to advancing our understanding of the impacts of wind farms on bird and bat populations and the means of minimising and mitigating their effects. In general, methods of estimating turbine cause fatality rates are based on combining carcass counts from systematic searches of the ground beneath turbines with estimates of the overall carcass detection rate. Detection rates are a function of search coverage (or the fraction of the carcasses falling within thebounds of the searched area), carcass persistence (or the fraction of carcasses that remain until a search) and searcher efficiency (of the fraction of carcasses on the ground at the time of search that are discovered by searchers). Accurate estimation of fatality rates requires that these factors that contribute to imperfect detection be properly accounted for in the models, but each factor presents special challenges that are often overlooked in estimation. For example, because carcass density tends to decrease with distance from a turbine, estimates of search coverage must incorporate not only the amount of area searched but also the configuration of the search plots in relation to the turbines. Because carcass removal rates tend not to be constant but to decrease with the passage of time after carcass arrival, persistence models that assume a constant removal rate (i.e. exponential and models that depend solely on the average persistence time) are often inaccurate and result in overestimating detection probabilities and underestimating fatality rates. Because searcher efficiency tends to decrease as carcasses decay and as the more easily discovered carcasses are removed from the field, accurate estimation of fatality rates must account for changes in searcher efficiency with time.;The development of statistical models that adequately account for sources of imperfect detection has been an active area of research in the USA and Europe for around two decades. Several promising models that incorporate nonconstant persistence distributions, changes in searcher efficiency with time andor hidden Markov processes for carcass arrivals have been proposed, and software programs for facilitating the calculations have been published (Huso et al. 2012 KornerNievergelt et al. 2012 Pron  Hines 2013 Bio3 Lda 2015 Wolpert  Coleman 2015). Rare species and low detection probabilities present special difficulties (Huso et al. 2016) because more precise fatality estimates may be required to protect more fragile populations, and high levels of precision are difficult to achieve when few carcasses are discovered. Rigorous comparison of the performance of the models under various scenarios would be a valuable contribution to advancing the knowledge of the effects of wind farms on vulnerable populations.