The value of the wind farm footprint to birds, the lack of reliable estimates regarding the potential impact, and the use of the precautionary and no net loss principles lead to prolonged consentapplication processes and extensive monitoring programmes in many cases. These potential showstopping conflicts reduce the predictability of the planning and consenting processes and may therefore be a socioeconomic problem for the energy industry (Box 6.2) and even for society as a whole (Cole 2011 Wolsink 2012). Development of effective and practical measures to mitigate wind turbine induced mortality at onshore wind farms is therefore paramount to avoid any delay in consent, in order to achieve climate change mitigation goals while safeguarding biodiversity. Implementing effective mitigation measures may also decrease the general level of conflicts with birds and thus enable development at sites previously deemed to have too high conflict levels, as well as improved utilisation of the wind resources at specific sites without increasing conflict levels.;To trigger mitigation at wind farm projects on federal lands in the USA, developers should apply for incidental take permits under the Endangered Species Act or Bald and Eagle Protection Act, allowing them to harm, wound or kill a permitted number of individuals of a protected species within a period of up to 30 years. Such take permits are based on conservation plans and guidelines outlining options for mitigating risk for protected species. Violation of these laws may result in prosecution, as was the case for Duke Energy, which was fined 1,000,000 in 2013 for taking 14 Golden Eagles Aquila chrysaetos and 149 other protected birds at the Campbell Hill and Top of the World wind farms between 2009 and 2013 (Anonymous 2014). The two wind farms with 176 wind turbines are sited on private agricultural land. These fatalities and the consequent sentence sparked mitigation measures at these wind farms, including monitoring and curtailment.;The decision to give consent to a wind farm is usually based on an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). Although EIA procedures and practice may vary from country to country (Wood 2003), there is a consistent purpose to identify, predict and evaluate environmental effects of development proposals before major decisions being taken and commitments made (International Association for Impact Assessment 1999). This also includes the evaluation of alternatives to the proposed action to enhance appropriate siting and design (Langston  Pullan 2003). The