A variety of detectors, microphones, weatherproofing strategies and software packages for both qualitative and quantitative analysis exist. Deciding which combination to use will primarily depend onthe users preference and familiarity, the objectives of the study, and an understanding of the limitations and biases associated with each component or system of components. It remains unclear how the different systems influence call quantity and quality, but to reduce bias within a study, it is best to deploy the same type of detector and weatherproofing strategy across all sampling stations (Strickland et al. 2011).;Studies to assess activity rates of bats need to account for variability among species or species groups. Different species vary in their use of habitat and are often active at different heights (Reynolds 2006 Collins  Jones 2009 Stanton  Poulton 2012). Moreover, species may be more active during certain times of the year, such as during migration or preparation for hibernation, or under different weather conditions (Hayes 1997 Reynolds 2006 Horn et al. 2008). Detection and identification of species also vary by the intensity of calls (loud versus quiet species), frequency of calls (highfrequency versus lowfrequency calls), differential call rates among species, differential call rates within a species according to different activities (such as commuting, foraging and migrating), proximity to the detectors, detector placement and height, weather, habitat and equipment (Griffin 1971 Barclay 1999 Hayes 2000 Kunz et al. 2007a). Thus, spatial and temporal replication is necessary to address many of the basic questions regarding bat presence and activity patterns.;Bats tend to use different landscape features and habitats for commuting and foraging throughout the night (Lacki et al. 2007). Accounting for this spatial variability in activity requires both horizontal and vertical sampling stations (Hayes 1997 Gannon et al. 2003 Reynolds 2006 Collins  Jones 2009 Stanton  Poulton 2012). The number and distribution of detector stations necessary to adequately estimate bat activity are not well established, but depend, at least in part, on the size of the study area and the within site variation (e.g. Arnett et al. 2006 Weller 2007) (Table 2.2). A minimum of two recording stations should be placed in each habitat type to capture spatial variation in bat activity.;It is common to place acoustic detectors on existing meteorological towers across the project area to record activity at ground level and within the lower portion of the rotorswept area (Figure 2.1). However, three or fewer towers are available at most wind farms, which severely limits the spatial distribution of detector locations at higher altitudes (USFWS 2012). All meteorological towers in a proposed wind farm should be used to record data within the rotorswept area, but if sampling at meteorological