Collision risk modelling for a wind farm often predicts low numbers of mortalities for a particular species, and such low rates are substantiated by empirical carcass data from many operational wind farms. Relative to population size, even for many threatened taxa, collision mortality estimates are so low that they are likely to be completely masked by natural population variability andor imprecise demographic values available for use in population models. These factors may mean that it is simply beyond the functional capacity of PVA to assess effects of collision estimates for a single wind farm. While it is unusual for the requisitedemographic information to be available for use in PVA, in a few instances it has been undertaken in combination with the results of collision risk modelling to assess the cumulative effects of multiple wind farms. This approach was used to estimate potential impacts of all existing and proposed wind farms within the entire distributional range of the migratory and critically endangered Orangebellied Parrot Neophema chrysogaster (Smales et al. 2006). The assessment was largely theoretical and entailed the use of assumptions for many of the relevant wind farms where no empirical input values were available for use in collision risk modelling. For turbine collisions that might occur for all modelled avoidance rates, the predicted change in survivorship rate would be approximately one order of magnitude less than the annual variation in the background survivorship rate. Carrete et al. (2009) used empirical carcass information from a small number of operational wind farms to estimate minimum collision mortality rates for the Egyptian Vulture Neophron percnopterus in a PVA to assess possible impacts on the entire Spanish population of the species, which is already in decline. With an additional probability for territorial birds of 0.015 of mortality due to collision with turbines and of 0.008 for nonterritorial birds, their PVA modelling showed a significantly increased probability of reducing the time to extinction of three subpopulations and thus of the entire meta population.;PBR is an approach that can be used to assess effects at the population level when values for few demographic parameters are available. PBR requires values for maximum annual recruitment rate, an estimate of population size, and a recovery factor (f) of between 0.1 and 1 (Dillingham  Fletcher 2011 and authors cited therein).;PBR is reliant on assumptions for imprecise or unknown demographic values, and Dillingham and Fletcher (2008 2011) caution against its use for very small populations. For populations where a specific recovery rate is uncertain, Wade (1998) and Dillingham and Fletcher (2008 2011) provide suggested default values for f according to the conservation status levels for threatened taxa.