Sensitivity mapping can also be a useful tool for identifying impacts, particularly cumulative impacts on individual species. For example, this was achieved for the Scottish map by identifying overlap of wind farms at different stages in the planning processwith distributions of sensitive species (Bright et al. 2008a), and also for Golden Plover Pluvialis apricaria in Scotland using modelled data (PearceHiggins et al. 2008). It is the intention to adopt a similar approach to identifying cumulative impacts in Ireland, using an overlay of existing Natura protected areas, existing wind energy installations and measures of potential for future wind energy development based on average wind speeds.;Sensitivity mapping may equally be used to map sensitive areas for bats or other potentially sensitive species such as large mammals (see Chapter 10 in this volume) or reptiles (see Chapter 6 in this volume). BirdLife suggests that developers use the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT www.birdlife.orgdatazone infoibat) to help identify potential impacts on nonavian species. This includes layers on protected area boundaries, biological information about habitat and species diversity indices, and key areas for biodiversity.;As with any tool, GIS has its limitations. If the data entered into the GIS are incomplete, then the products derived from it will tend to be of variable quality for the intended purpose of deriving sensitivity maps. Therefore, the quality of the final map is dependent on the completeness and quality of data available. One major limitation is that while some mapping exercises have included collection of new data, for instance in Bulgaria (Box 5.2), limited resources mean that most are based on existing data, which have not been collected for the purpose of identifying sensitive areas. This may present problems such as gaps in coverage for different species, missing data for particular species or only relatively old data being available. Such limitations are of concern if the map is viewed as a definitive data source rather than being indicative. One means of addressing this is to include a confidence factor to aid interpretation of the data, as conducted by BirdLife South Africa, although this makes the map more complex to interpret. Another possibility is inclusion of a signed disclaimer explaining these caveats when opening the map viewer or downloading the data online, as used in the case of maps for Ireland, South Africa and the Soaring Bird Sensitivity Map tool (Box 5.1).