Telemetry tracking of individual birds has been used to estimate home ranges, habitat use, terrain associations and flight paths of Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos, Griffon Vulture and other birds susceptible to wind turbine collisions. It is thus useful in scenario D in Figure 1.1, albeit without knowing interactions with other birds, although flight height may be recorded with altimeters within tags (Cleasby et al. 2015) and some behaviours such as foraging may be inferred from flight patterns and tag signal patterns (Perrow et al. 2006 Cleasby et al. 2015). Following the lead of Perrow et al. (2006) in their use of radiotelemetry to establish distance buffers between offshore wind turbines and foraging Little Terns Sternula albifrons, Watson et al. (2014) used Global Positioning System (GPS) transmitters on ten Golden Eagles to estimate home ranges, and terrain associations to recommend wind energy buffers from nest sites. Mammen et al. (2009) used radiotelemetry on Red Kites Milvus milvus in Germany to also estimate home range size and recommend buffer distance around nest sites. Grajetzky et al. (2009) used radiotelemetry on Montagus Harriers Circus pygargus to estimate home range overlap into a wind farm and to estimate the distribution of flight heights on that wind farm. Miller et al. (2014) compared resource selection estimates of 30 Golden Eagles tracked with GPS transmitters to assess the risk of collision with wind farmslocated along migratory routes in the Appalachian Mountains of Pennsylvania, USA. The most common use of telemetry has been at existing wind farms to record flight responses to wind turbines (Dahl et al. 2013) and measure displacement impacts (May et al. 2013) and mortality (Hunt et al. 1998 Hunt 2002).;Limitations of telemetry include the following. Telemetry data generally provide limited behavioural information other than whether the bird is flying or perching, timing of movement and general flight directions (but see above). The longer the interval between telemetry positions the greater the uncertainty about the intervening flight paths. Unless the average interval between positions is five seconds or less, telemetry data may be too crude for micrositing except where sufficient flights over the same locations or type of terrain can be used to identify flight trajectories. GPS telemetry tends to record positions with less accuracy along the Z axis (altitude), so there could be higher uncertainty about whether a bird flew within the anticipated low and high reaches of turbine blades especially in the absence of a digital elevation model of the ground surface. GPS telemetry tends to suffer downtimes while solar panels develop sufficient charge, so early times of day may go unrepresented. Telemetry units may also sometimes affect the birds behaviour (Perrow et al. 2006). Finally, the individuals caught and followed may differ in behaviour from other individuals that were not fitted with telemetry.;Raptor nest counts are common in baseline studies, often due to agency guidelines or pressure from natural resource agencies. Raptor nests are typically mapped within the proposed wind farm and adjoining buffered area (the scale of buffers varies). However, no relationship has yet been demonstrated between fatality rates and nesting density, nor is there any test of the effectiveness of how large a buffer should be used for raptor nest counts. There may exist a relationship between fatality rates and nest density, but species specific tests are needed. Postconstruction nest counts have also been performed to relate nesting success of Dickcissel Spiza americana with distance from wind turbines (Hatchet et al. 2013), and to estimate the breeding population of Burrowing Owl Athene cunicularia within a wind farm so that collision fatality rates can be related to population size (Smallwood et al. 2013). Dahl et al. (2012) found reduced breeding success of Whitetailed Eagles following wind farm development by relying on a beforeafter