In a synthesis of operational mitigation studies in the USA and Canada, Arnett et al. (2013c) reported that most studies they reviewed documented at least a 50 reduction in bat fatalities when turbine cutin speed was increased by at least 1.5 metres per second above the manufacturers cutin speed, with up to a 93 reduction in bat fatalities in one study (Arnett et al. 2011). Consultants reports in Germany (Behr  von Helversen 2006) and Portugal (Laboratory of Applied Ecology 2010) demonstrated that in comparison with normally operating turbines, respective reductions in bat fatalities of around 50 and 78.5 were achieved when turbine cutin speed was raised. In Canada, Baerwald et al. (2009) demonstrated equally beneficial reductions (about 60 fewer fatalities) with a lowspeed idling approach, where blades were pitched at 45 degrees and the generator speed required to start energy production was lowered. Young et al. (2011) discovered that feathering turbine blades (pitched 90 degrees and parallel to the wind) at or below the manufacturers cutin speed, when turbines produced no electricity into the power grid, resulted in up to 72 fewer bats being killed. This is significant, because most turbines spin at high speeds below their manufacturers cutin speed and are likely to kill bats when no electricity is being produced (Arnett et al. 2013c). More recently, situation and conditiondependent algorithms have been developed for wind turbine operating systems to reduce bat fatalities. These algorithms consider several parameters such as wind speed, ambient temperature, season and time of day, as well as recorded bat activities for defining a set of operation rules for wind turbines (KornerNievergelt et al. 2013),and have demonstrated significant reductions in bat fatality, from around 12 bats killed per turbine to 2 bats per turbine (Box 8.1).;Figure 8.2 A wind turbine with blades pitched (sometimes referred to as feathered) 90 degrees and parallel with the wind, the typical position of the turbine blade when cutin speed is raised. (Edward B. Arnett);Some operational minimisation studies failed to demonstrate statistically significant effects that in some cases could be explained by a lack of treatment conditions during the study, such as winds being either too low or high to allow comparison between treatments (Arnett et al. 2013c). Also, sites dominated by fatalities of Brazilian Freetailed Bat Tadarida brasiliensis may not experience significant reductions in fatality at the levels of cutin speed or low speed idling that are currently implemented, because this species is known to fly at heights up to 3,000 m (McCracken et al. 2008) and is thus adapted to much higher wind speeds than those presumed to be used by most species of bats frequently killed by wind turbines (Arnett et al. 2013c).