Understanding susceptibility and vulnerability has been hampered by five major problems. First, the distinction between susceptibility and vulnerability can be muddled by changes in behaviour or relative abundance caused by wind turbine installations. Patterns of behaviour and abundance seen before construction may not resemble the patterns seen after construction, or they may differ in small but significant ways. Experimental designs and more thorough investigations are needed to discern how and to what degree susceptibility translates to vulnerability following a wind farm development (Dahl et al. 2012). Secondly, comparing observational studies among wind farms by opportunity rather than by sampling design can lead to pseudoreplication (Huso  Dalthorp 2014). Thirdly, European studies found poor prediction of fatality rates based on preconstruction use rates (de Lucas et al. 2008 Ferrer et al. 2012), but no serious verification has been attempted elsewhere. Fourthly, the degree to which relative abundance and behaviours vary within and between species is often unknown and can confound comparisons of fatality rates. Relative abundance measured at a certain place and time may differ from the relative abundance measured after wind farm construction for reasons independent of the sites construction. By not surveying far enough beyond the boundaries of wind farms, investigators often miss measures of aggregation within wind farms that would be more predictive of collision impacts (Carrete et al. 2012). Behaviours can also vary temporally and spatially in response towind, topography, food and social conditions. Finally, high uncertainty and large biases are likely in the methods used to estimate use rates. Whereas uncertainty and biases in fatality rate estimates have been debated, little debate has been directed towards sources and magnitudes of error and bias in use rates other than potential biases pointed out by Madders and Whitfield (2006).;The development of North American baseline study methods focused on standardisation and comparability of metrics (Gauthreaux 1995). Many guidelines documents have been prepared, usually emphasising methodological standardisation (Table 1.1). Despite the emphasis on standardisation, guidelines have varied considerably in their goals and objectives and level of detail (Table 1.1). Guidelines in Japan, England and California also collectively recommended recording certain details associated with use surveys, including the observers name, station number, survey date, start time, temperature, wind speed (average, maximum), wind direction, weather (cloud cover, precipitation), visibility, time of each bird observation, species, number of birds composing an observation, social context (single, pair, flock), behaviour (perching, nesting, flying, type of flight), mapped location or distance from the observer, slope aspect or habitat, flight direction and distance of the bird from the nearest wind turbine (if postconstruction). Guidance conspicuously absent from the guidance documents reviewed in Table 1.1 includes the assessment of barrier effects or avian energetic costs associated with birds having to fly around wind turbines or wind farms (Drewitt  Langston 2006), and the use of peer review in formulating survey plans and in reporting results.;It is also immediately clear from the guidance documents that a range of methods may be recommended in particular circumstances and according to survey goals and objectives. The metrics potentially derived from the different methods include (1) use rates, including use rates within heights above ground equal to the anticipated low and high reaches of the turbine blades, for use in a collision risk index and modelling collision risk (New et al. 2015) (2) passage rates, which are at least theoretically the basis of collision risk models based on avoidance rates (Band et al. 2007 Smales et al. 2013 see Chapter 13 in this volume) (3) behaviour rates, such as hovering time or aggressive encounters per hour, which are used for spatially explicit collision hazard models (see Chapter 17 in this volume) and (4) nesting densities, which are also used for spatially explicit collision hazard models (Smallwood et al. 2009a).