Biosis Pty Ltd developed a collision risk model and began to use itin preconstruction wind farm assessments in 2002. The model described by Smales et al. (2013) accounts for potential collisions with all parts of a wind turbine and incorporates capacity for different avoidance rates to apply to the moving rotor and the static parts of the turbine. It considers the turbine to represent an obstacle whose surface area is dependent upon the angle from which a bird flies towards it. For the situation in which all flights pass through the wind farm in a single direction, such as migration passage, the surface area is calculated specific to the compass orientations of the birds flight and of the turbines. For resident birds making multidirectional flights, the model calculates a mean presented area from all possible angles of approach. The model also accounts for the differing potential numbers of turbines that may be encountered by random flight paths through a linear row of turbines, a scattered array or any combination of these configurations.;Hamer Environmental built a collision risk model as an extension from the Tucker model to address rotor collision probability for all potential flight angles of approach, and that also considers the potential for collision with the static tower and nacelle of a turbine (Holmstrom et al. 2011). It uses multiple Monte Carlo simulations to estimate the mean collision risk per typical flight through the wind farm. While the description of the model by Holmstrom et al. (2011) is confined to the kinematic function of a bird interacting with a turbine, the model has been used for full collision risk assessment by the incorporation of empirical bird flight data and calculation of the probability of collisions for the entire turbine configurations of proposed wind farms (Thomas Hamer, personal communication 2014).;In 2011, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) provided a draft method for collision risk modelling for species of eagle (USFWS 2011), which has since been published as a final plan (USFWS 2013). The model adopts a Bayesian approach and its determination of perturbine collision probability relies on prior experience with turbine collisions rather than on a kinematic model of interaction between a bird and a turbine. In guidance provided with the model, prior examples are drawn from other operational wind farms. Allowance is also made for collision experience from