Although various mitigation measures have been proposed and tried for many decades, the consequent uptake of the entire mitigation hierarchy adaptively throughout the management cycle of a wind farm is still limited. How and to what extent the mitigation hierarchy is implemented varies considerably from country to country and ranges from proactive to more reactive approaches. Nevertheless, the insight since the mid2000s, not least from highprofile wind farms where a combination of public opinion and unacceptable impact levels has triggered research and experimentation such as Altamont Pass (California, USA), Smla (Norway) and Tarifa (Spain), has brought mitigation into the mainstream. This chapter has presented the prioritised steps of themitigation hierarchy linked to each consecutive development decision gate and when to address each mitigation step. It is, however, important to remember that from the point of view of adaptive management, mitigation should be in focus throughout the entire lifespan of a wind farm. In addition, after construction, bird impacts may be minimised through relocation of turbines, reduction measures can be implemented during operation, and compensation can be adopted during the entire life cycle of the wind farm. The extent to which each of the prioritised steps contributes to mitigation of the (potential) impacts on birds is highly site and species specific. However, any reduction in expected efficacy does not allow for the omission of (prioritised) steps of the mitigation hierarchy during planning and management.;I would like to thank Frank Hanssen and Manuela de Lucas for their contributions to the text boxes. I would also like to thank Dagmar Hagen for sharing her expertise in restoration ecology with me. Finally, NRELs WindWildlife Impacts Literature Database (https wild.nrel.gov) provided me with an updated bibliography of the relevant literature.;Anonymous (2014, 15 September) Utility company sentenced in Wyoming for killing protected birds at wind projects. The United States Department of Justice. Retrieved 6 May 2015 from httpwww.justice.govopapr utilitycompanysentencedwyomingkillingprotectedbirdswindprojects;Aradottir, A.L.  Hagen, D. (2013) Ecological restoration approaches and impacts on vegetation, soils and society. In Sparks, D.L. (ed.) Advances in Agronomy. Oxford Academic PressElsevier. pp. 173222.;Aydin, N.Y., Kentel, E.  Duzgun, S. (2010) GISbased environmental assessment of wind energy systems for spatial planning a case study from western Turkey. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 14 364373.;Barrios, L.  Rodriguez, A. (2004) Behavioural and environmental correlates of soaringbird mortality at onshore wind turbines. Journal of Applied Ecology 41 7181.;Bevanger, K. (1998) Biological and conservation aspects of bird mortality caused by electricity power lines a review. Biological Conservation 86 6776.;Bevanger, K., Berntsen, F., Clausen, S., Dahl, E.L., Flagstad, ., Follestad, A., Halley, D., Hanssen, F., Johnsen, L., Kvaly, P., LundHoel, P., May,