Radiotracking bats is labour intensive and expensive, and typically only required if certain habitat conditions exist (Rodrigues et al. 2015), or if an imperiled species is presumed present at a site and knowledge of their flight direction upon exiting a roost and habitat use is necessary to inform turbine or project siting (USFWS 2012). Over short periods such as 34 weeks, tracking bats can be accomplished using very highfrequency (VHF) transmitters. If enough individual bats are tagged, tracking can provide insight on a species foraging (Murray  Kurta 2004 Bonacorrso et al. 2015), and roosting (Hein et al. 2009) habitat, which may be useful in avoiding certain areas, or limiting habitat alteration during development of a wind farm. If roosts are located, surveys may be necessary to determine the size of the colony and the behaviour and activity patterns of bats as they emerge (see Roost surveys and exit counts, below). Seasonal movements of bats also can be ascertainedwith VHF transmitters and fixedwing aircraft (Holland  Wikelski 2009 Dechmann et al. 2014). However, only a small number of individuals may be tracked at any given time, and tracking a bat over its entire migratory journey can be logistically and financially challenging.;Yet, understanding the seasonal movement patterns and migratory routes of bats is critical for siting wind farms away from highrisk areas. The vast majority of fatalities caused by wind turbines across most of Europe and North America is from migratory species (Rydell et al. 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013). However, longer term monitoring over at least several months to a year remains difficult because biologists lack the technology and methods of tag attachment to monitor movement patterns over longer periods (Cryan  Diehl 2009). Global Positioning System (GPS) transmitters used with Argos satellites are too large for most bat species in the USA, Canada and Europe (Holland  Wikelski 2009). Advances in miniaturisation of geolocators, GPS tags and data loggers allow the recording of at least locational information for small animals over extended periods (Liechti et al. 2013). However, the data from very small devices cannot be remotely downloaded and accessed in real time. Therefore, the tagged animal must be recaptured, which is a challenging task with most bat species. There also is the issue of securely attaching tags to bats for long periods, but Castle et al. (2015) have proposed a novel approach of suturing tags to bats for longterm deployment, using monofilament synthetic sutures (Figure 2.5). With the continuing advances in GPS tags, future studies should take advantage of the technological and methodological advances to better understand largescale, longterm movement patterns of bats in relation to the growing wind energy sector (Strickland et al. 2011).