Several different approaches have been used to estimate fatality at wind farms, each with different assumptions regarding the factors described earlier (reviewed in Bernardino et al. 2013 WarrenHicks et al. 2013 Huso et al. 2016). All are variations of a simple model of the number of observed carcasses (X) as a binomial random variable dependent on the actual number of fatalities (M) and the probability of detection (g), or Xbinomial(M, g), where M is estimated as M  Xg. When g is known, this estimator is unbiased but, in practice g is not known and must be estimated, potentially introducing some bias and additional variability (Thompson 1992). Furthermore, as already discussed, detection probability can vary with time, carcass size and location. To account for this, the study area and period of interest are typically divided into i classes, reflecting combinations of location, time and carcass characteristics, each with a potentially different probability of detection gi.;How the data for the separate search classes (Xi and i) are combined to estimate the total number of fatalities at a site is largely determined by the number of carcasses observed and estimates of the proportion arriving in each class i, including the unsearched area with detection probability 0. When the total observed count is small, total fatality is estimated as M  Xiii, whereas when the observed count is large, total fatality is estimated as (Xii)i, where  is the estimated fraction of carcasses that arrive in any class within the searched area (Huso et al. 2016). Not all estimators address the question of fraction of carcasses landing within the searched area, so they differ from one another primarily in their assumptions about carcass removal and search processes, which can lead to substantial differences in estimates of i and ultimately of M (Huso et al. 2016).;Software for calculating estimates is available for several estimators, including Fatality Estimator (Huso et al. 2012), the R packages fatalityCMR (Pron  Hines 2013) and carcass (Korner Nievergelt et al. 2015), Evidence of Absence (Dalthorp et al. 2014) and Wildlife Fatality Estimator (Bio3 Lda 2015). BUGS code of an example mixture model is also provided in the addon material of KornerNievergelt et al. (2013). The programming skills and in depth knowledge of the methodological details of fatality estimation required of the user vary greatly among these programs. For example, Fatality Estimator (Huso et al. 2012) and Evidence of Absence (Dalthorp et al. 2014) require the user to provide estimates of a explicitly, and the R package carcass (KornerNievergelt et al. 2015) provides a collection of empirical and theoretical spatial