The authors estimated that broadband signals 65 dB (upper target level) would begin jamming or masking most bats echo perception from targets beyond about 1.5 m (see Arnett et al. 2013b and supplemental material). Calculations assume an ambient temperature of 20C and air pressure of 101.325 kPa.;The attraction of insects to, and resultant high activity near, wind turbines that in turn is responsible for attracting bats with potentially fatal consequences, is a valid hypothesis (Kunz et al. 2007b Cryan  Barclay 2009 Rydell et al. 2010b), but one that remains mostly untested. Therefore, the consequences of changing the attractiveness of turbines to insects are unclear at best and changing turbine colour as a potential mitigation tool has received little attention. One exception is the study by Long et al. (2010), who investigated relative attraction of insects to specific turbine colours and other hues to determine whether turbine paint colour influences insect numbers at wind farms. They found that at ground level, the common turbine colours of white and light grey attracted significantly more insects than the other colours tested, suggesting a potential role for turbine colour in mitigation. However, tests at hub height and at operational wind farms to determine the efficacy of the approach in minimising bat fatalities have not yet been conducted and, as such, changing turbine colour is not currently a viable solution to the problem of bat mortality. Moreover, painting turbines colours other than those used by manufacturers may have unknown or unintended consequences such as heat retention and reflection of turbines and may also affect their social acceptance. Any such effects could render painting unacceptable.;Studies in Scotland suggest that bat activity may be deterred by electromagnetic signals from small, portable radar units. Nicholls and Racey (2009) found that bat activity and foraging effort per unit time were reduced significantly during experimental trials when their radar antenna was fixed to produce a unidirectional signal that maximised the exposure of foraging bats to the radar beam. The effectiveness of radar as a potential deterrent, however, has not been tested at an operational wind farm to determine whether bat fatalities could be significantly reduced by these means. Thus, it is unclear whether electromagnetic signals would deter bats that are migrating or commuting as effectively as those that are