In the USA and Canada, relatively few bat fatalities were reported at wind farms before 2001 (Johnson 2005) however, this may have been an artefact of study designs focused on finding carcasses of large birds, such as raptors (Anderson et al. 1999 Kunz et al. 2007b). Bat fatalities received little attention until 2003 when unprecedented high fatality rates were reported at wind farms along forested ridgelines in the Appalachian mountains of Pennsylvania and West Virginia (Arnett et al. 2008). Since this discovery, studies specifically designed for bats have become more prevalent across the USA and Canada. However, the methodology required varies across states and provinces from those with no guidance to those with wellarticulated protocols such as Pennsylvania Pennsylvania Game Commission (PGC) 2013 and Ontario (Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources 2011). In 2012, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) finalised a set of voluntary wind energyguidelines to provide a structured scientific process for addressing wildlife conservation concerns at all stages of landbased wind farm development (USFWS 2012).;Understanding the risk and impact of wind energy on bats requires studies be conducted at proposed and operational wind farms, often referred to as pre and postconstruction studies, respectively. Preconstruction surveys are intended to assess the species composition, relative activity patterns in relation to space such as altitude and habitat, and time (nightly, seasonally and annually), and risk associated with a proposed site. Post construction studies can examine how bats interact with wind turbines, assess the actual risk based on fatality patterns and estimates, and, when appropriate, respond to potential problems by implementing impact reduction strategies (Arnett et al. 2007).;Although substantial gaps in knowledge remain, in both North America and Europe pre and postconstruction monitoring studies have provided useful information for understanding the impact of wind turbines on bats as well as strategies to reduce fatalities at operational facilities. For example, both preconstruction acoustic surveys and postconstruction fatality monitoring have documented consistent patterns of increased activity and fatality related to the time of year, especially autumn, and under certain weather conditions such as low wind speeds. Furthermore, postconstruction monitoring indicates that certain species, specifically migratory bats, are more vulnerable to collisions than others (Rydell et al. 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013). In the USA and Canada, species in the genera Lasiurus, Lasionycteris and Tadarida comprise the majority of fatalities, whereas in Europe, Nyctalus, Pipistrellus, Vespertillio and Eptesicus species appear to be the most vulnerable (Rydell et al. 2010 Arnett  Baerwald 2013).;Using innovative technologies and scientifically appropriate methods can enhance the credibility and comparability of results, allowing stakeholders to focus on the implications of the findings rather than debating the validity of the data and how they were obtained (Strickland et al. 2011). Moreover, establishing methodologies where wind farms are prevalent, such as in many European countries, and parts of the USA and Canada, will help in areas where wind energy is new and expanding rapidly, including Africa, Asia, and Central and South America (Arnett et al. 2007).