Bats are known to restrict their activity under certain weather conditions, such as during periods of rain, low temperatures and strong winds (Erickson  West 2002). In the USA, clear patterns of activity at preconstruction sites have been observed showing a positive relationship with temperature and a negative relationship with wind speed (Arnett et al. 2006 Redell et al. 2006 Reynolds 2006 Weller  Baldwin 2011). The consistency of these patterns inspired the concept of feathering turbine blades during low wind speed conditions to reduce bat fatalities (see Chapter 18 in this volume). Other weather variables may also be important. Baerwald and Barclay (2011) observed the negative influence of winddirection on Silverhaired Bat Lasionycteris noctivagans activity and the positive influence of decreasing barometric pressure on Hoary Bat activity. Since weather plays such an important role in bat activity, monitoring should occur nightly across the study and every effort to relate activity to easily measured weather variables should be made. Ideally, weather data collected from meteorological towers or wind turbines from the study site can be used, but nearby weather stations may also supply useful data.;One goal of preconstruction acoustic surveys is to predict the potential risk of bats before construction of the wind farm (Kunz et al. 2007a). This can be done by comparing preconstruction acoustic activity with postconstruction fatality (Hein et al. 2013), or by using acoustic data to develop species distribution models to develop risk maps (Roscioni et al. 2013). However, predicting bat fatality and risk using acoustic data has been challenging. A key assumption is that preconstruction activity, as estimated by relative activity, is correlated with postconstruction fatality, but there is no evidence for this as yet (Hein et al. 2013). A lack of documented bat activity, particularly at or near the rotorswept area, during pre construction surveys does not preclude risk of collision, because at least some species appear to be attracted to a site once turbines have been constructed (Cryan et al. 2014). Thus, surveys at ground level may only serve to indicate the presence of bats that could potentially become attracted to the height of operating wind turbines. In addition, changes in vegetation cover and conditions from preconstruction to postconstruction may affect the height at which bats fly, thus leading to more bats feeding, commuting or migrating through an area, and potentially increasing their exposure to turbine blades (Kunz et al. 2007b).;Postconstruction acoustic surveys are rare in the USA, but are required in the EUROBATS guidelines (Rodrigues et al. 2015) (Table 2.2). Acoustic surveys conducted after a facility is operational may indicate changes in activity levels, behaviour or the potential attraction of bats to turbines. To relate activity with fatality, detectors should be secured to the same turbines where carcass searches are conducted. Kunz et al. (2007a) synthesised five post construction surveys and found that the number of bat calls per night for each site was positively correlated with estimated fatalities per turbine per year (r0.79). However, the authors pointed out several limitations in the analysis and noted that it was unclear whether preconstruction call data would have shown the same pattern.