Using turbine types that are less hazardous seems likely to be the most effective way of reducing avian collision risk. There has been an extensive technological evolution of horizontalaxis windturbines, with a 10fold increase in size and 20fold increase in capacity (from 100 kW to over 2 MW) within the last three decades in most modern wind farms (Islam et al. 2013). To minimise collision risk to birds, fewer and larger turbines, placed farther apart, are preferred over many small turbines. At the end of its life cycle, a wind farm may be repowered replacing many old turbines with fewer larger and more modern ones. Repowering also allow for a reevaluation of turbine location or relocation and wind farm design, based on the predictive hazard maps derived from recorded fatalities, flight activity and breeding sites (Smallwood et al. 2009a Dahl et al. 2015). Especially in wind farms in the USA, larger modern tubulartowered turbines have replaced oldgeneration smaller turbines, often with lattice towers. Repowering of the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area, for example, resulted in dramatic changes in exposure, leading to reduced mortality (Hunt 2002 Smallwood 2006 2008 2010 Smallwood  Karas 2009 see Chapter 7 in this volume). Other studies have, however, shown little effect (Krijgsveld et al. 2009) or even the opposite effect (de Lucas et al. 2008) of turbine size on fatality rates. These opposite results were thought to be related to the placement of turbines (e.g. on ridges), spacing between the turbines and the flight altitude of the affected bird species in relation to the turbine hub height.;The placement of the turbines within the landscape minimises the exposure of birds to the hazard posed by the turbines. Developers typically seek to locate turbines where wind conditions and interturbine spacing are optimal with respect to wind capture and wake effects (Serrano Gonzlez et al. 2014). During the design phase, micrositing can simultaneously take into account locations with bird concentrations or increased exposure to collisions (Bohrer et al. 2013 Liechti et al. 2013). This can help in minimising displacement due to disturbance and barrier effects as well as collision risk. Several studies have shown an uneven distribution of utilisation and fatalities within the footprint of wind farms (Barrios  Rodriguez 2004 Everaert  Stienen 2006 Smallwood et al. 2007 de Lucas et al. 2012a Dahl et al. 2015). Everaert and Stienen (2006) and Everaert (2014) found an exceptionally high mortality at 4 out of 25 turbines that created a barrier between a breeding site for terns and their foraging area at Zeebrugge in Belgium. Dahl et al. (2015) found that collision fatalities were lower within 500 m of Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla nest sites at the Smla wind farm in Norway, probably due to territoriality. Burrowing Owl Athene cunicularia hypugaea flight activity and collision mortality were higher in areas with sparsely distributed turbines and endof