Behaviour surveys were designed to test this hypothesis, but after thousands of observations there was a realisation that most of the foraging activity resulting in distraction happens far from wind turbines, usually lower on the slopes. But in the process it began to be noticed that most of the nearmisses with wind turbine blades involved Golden Eagles interacting with each other or with other birds (Figure 7.9). Golden Eagles display to each other and chase each other near wind turbines. Redtailed Hawks and common ravens harass Golden Eagles. Even blackbirds and other bird species will mob Golden Eagles, and mobbed Eagles are distracted while flying through turbine rotors to escape harassment. Interactive behaviours emerged as predictors of collision hazard, and so did flight across terrain features where turbines are typically installed. The collision hazard models improved by analysing behaviours associated with distractions only along segments of flights that passed over turbinelikely terrain features such as ridgelines and ridge crests.;Figure 7.9 Two Golden Eagles interacting next to 100 kW KCS56 wind turbines within a ridge saddle. (Shawn Smallwood);The improved collision hazard models are still deficient, on their own, for wind turbine siting. Given the millions of grid cells scored over a complex terrain, scatterings of anomalous results are inevitable. Interpreting collision hazard maps that include this noise requires understanding of collision risk in order to guide the wind companies. This includes warning the companies against siting turbines in narrow gaps between areas mapped as the higher hazard classes 3 or 4, because siting should err on the side of caution. There is a need to be wary of terrain conditions that will result in severe cutting into slopes to accommodate turbine pads and access roads. The larger the wind turbine being installed, the larger the pad area required for the installation. Grading for the pad can alter the local terrain, thereby altering the collision hazard from the hazard class that had been mapped. Finally, certain terrain features