While the costs of lost power from operational adjustments such as raising cutin speed can be factored into the economics and financing and power purchase agreements of new projects, alteringturbine operations even on a partial, limitedterm basis potentially poses operational and financial difficulties for existing projects. Thus, there is considerable interest in developing solutions to reduce bat fatalities that do not involve turbine shutdowns. Research on alternative mitigation strategies and their associated costs has been proposed (Arnett et al. 2007) and is warranted.;Any means of deterring bats from approaching turbines could prevent fatalities. A deterrent may work either by directly diverting approaching bats away or by bats acquiring a learned aversion from previous exposure. Echolocating bats produce highfrequency vocal signals and perceive their surroundings by listening to features of the echoes reflecting of targets in the path of the sound beam (Neuweiler 2000). Consequently, these bats depend heavily on auditory function for prey capture, orientation, communication and avoiding obstacles. Previous studies that indicate some species of bats avoid certain territorial social calls emitted by conspecifics (Barlow  Jones 1997) and are deterred by clicks emitted by noxious moths (Hristov  Conner 2005). Thus, it seems plausible that an acoustic device emitting ultrasound could disrupt returning echoes of bats and theoretically deter them from turbines.;Few studies, however, have investigated the influence of ultrasound broadcast on bat behaviour and activity, particularly in the field. Griffin et al. (1963) showed that broadband random ultrasonic noise could mask bat echolocation somewhat but not completely, whereas Mackey and Barclay (1989) concluded that ultrasound broadcasts reduced bat activity, and attributed the reduction to the bats having greater difficulty in hearing echoes from insects and thus reduced feeding efficiency. However, tests of commercial ultrasonic rodent repellers emitting sound at 19 kHz, 23.5 kHz and 30.7 kHz at 120 dB SPL at approximately 10 cm elicited no response from Little Brown Bat Myotis lucifugus, even when some of the bats were hanging on the device (Hurley  Fenton 1980).