Methods for siting projects have mostly consisted of use (utilisation) surveys intended to indicate the relative abundance of birds (Box 7.1) (see Chapter 11 in this volume) and bats (see Chapter 12 in this volume), although sensitivity maps have been produced to help guide project siting within regions (see Chapter 15 in this volume). Some of these sensitivity maps have consisted of indicatorlevel weightings using such inputs as Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (e.g. Bright et al. 2008 see Chapter 5 in this volume). Sensitivity maps or spatial models have assumed relationships between wind turbine collisions and the types of flights or behaviours associated with collisions. For example, Ainslie et al. (2013) developed a predictive model from wind patterns that are associated with Golden Eagle Aquila chrysaetos migration pathways, assuming that migrating Eagles would be more susceptible to collisions. Baisner et al. (2010) used body mass, wingspan and wing surface area of various species to predict glide distances beyond which wind turbines could be sited safely offshore, assuming that gliding and soaring behaviours relate to collisions. Miller et al. (2014) used the overlap between resource selection models of wind turbine locations and Golden Eagle flight locations less than 150 m above ground, assuming that shared model predictions relate to collision risk. Fielding et al. (2006) predicted collision impacts by looking for overlap of Golden Eagle breeding territories with planned and built wind projects, assuming that Golden Eagle impacts are related to activity within breeding territories. However, it is unknown whether any of these assumptions are true, and it is often unclear whether actual project siting has been influenced by the results of baseline studies orregional sensitivity maps.;Siting wind farms to avoid areas of high avian use has long been recognised as an important first step (Cade 1995 Schwartz 2001). As one baseline study author wrote, The ability to estimate potential bird mortality at the proposed insert project name is greatly enhanced by operational monitoring data collected at existing windenergy facilities. For several windenergy facilities, standardized data on fixedpoint surveys were collected in association with standardized postconstruction (operational) monitoring, allowing comparisons of bird use with bird mortality (WEST Inc., unpublished reports). Morrison (1998) prepared the first protocol for performing use surveys, suggesting coverage of all possible turbine sites to calculate and compare passage rates, and hence avoid highuse sites. For Morrisons approach to yield sufficiently thorough passage rates in a large wind farm (of 100 turbines), surveys would be needed at many stations to permit views of all proposed sites, and then these stations would need to be surveyed frequently enough to obtain robust passage rates. The Morrison (1998) protocol was scientifically defensible, but probably expensive, and was never implemented. An alternative approach would have been to associate passage rates with topography and wind at a sample of wind turbines for projection to other sites within the study area.;It has long been understood that avian collisions with wind turbines occur disproportionately where wind turbines are positioned on certain combinations of topography and wind. The first large study of bird collisions with wind turbines found that wind turbine fatalities were associated with canyons or cliffs where topography deflected winds or served as flight corridors (Orloff  Flannery 1992). Even earlier, Howell and DiDonato (unpublished data 1991) found more fatalities at turbines near swales and shoulders of hills, that is, breaks in slope. Curry and Kerlinger (2000) found the same pattern. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (2003) interim guidelines identified ridge saddles, notches and rims as hazardous topographic features for placing wind turbines, and recommended not placing wind turbines in or on them. According to the California Energy Commission and California Department of Fish and Game (CEC  CDFG 2007), Once a site is selected, micrositing efforts, such as