Siting wind turbines to minimise avian collision hazard benefits from an understanding of (1) how birds use the airspace over the landscape where new wind turbines are proposed or planned, and (2) patterns of fatalities among terrain features and wind conditions associated with earlier or existing wind turbines. Understanding how birds use the airspace improves from monitoring of bird activity and specific flight behaviours under various wind conditions and landscape settings (Smallwood et al. 2009b 2009c). In the 543 ha Vasco Caves Regional Preserve, Smallwood et al. (2009b 2009c) recorded 774 hours of ontheminute observations of raptors from 15 stations from June 2006 to September 2007. The Alameda County Monitor recorded ontheminute observations of raptors throughout the APWRA from 2005 to 2011 (ICF 2014, unpublished data), and Insignia Environmental did so at Buena Vista in 2007 and 2008 (Insignia 2011, unpublished data). This on theminute mapping of bird locations and behaviours proved much more instructive over the simple use data typically collected at wind projects, but it yielded only crude spatial patterns for only a few siterepetitive behaviours such as perching, kiting and hovering. After comparing use rates with fatality rates and seeing no significant spatial or interannual relationships between the two, it was decided to focus more on the behaviour patterns to predict collision hazards. More focused behaviour surveys throughout the APWRA have been performed since November 2012, including visual tracking of individual birds and noting specifically how they interacted with wind turbines. These observation data can be related to a DEM to derive predictive models of locations where raptors more often fly or perform certain behaviours. The predictive models can then be projected to areas where new wind turbines areplanned.;Locations for focused behaviour observation stations were selected that permitted excellent views of Golden Eagles and other raptors flying by wind turbines or over areas likely to receive wind turbines, including within two repowering projects and spread across the rest of the APWRA as part of mitigation for the Vasco Winds repowering project (Figure 7.2 and Table 7.1). Twentyone of the behaviour stations spread across the APWRA were selected from former use survey stations ranked 1st to 30th in order of Golden Eagle observations per hour per cubic kilometre of visible airspace within the survey boundary of each station. Fifteen additional stations were added to Vasco Caves Regional Preserve, Northern Territories, Vasco Winds Energy Project and the Buena Vista Wind Energy Project in Contra Costa County, where earlier use surveys were performed rarely, if ever. The maximum survey radius depended on how far the observer felt comfortable estimating the birds spatial location and height above ground on to imagebased maps. Map extents rarely permitted survey distances of greater than 300 m.;Figure 7.2 Distribution of behaviour survey stations in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA) (green border), including stations established as part of the Ogin (blue circles) and Patterson Pass (stars) repowering projects, and as mitigation for the Vasco Winds Energy Project (triangles).;Table 7.1 Summary of behaviour surveys conducted in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA) used for collision hazard model development.