7. Promote cooperation among stakeholders, international andinterdisciplinary knowledge exchange, and data accessibility in order to add value to current and future knowledge.;8. Safeguard continuous investment of research, development and testing of mitigation measures.;9. Emphasise the need for cost efficiency, practicability and applicability of mitigation options to enhance acceptance and, therefore, mitigation effort and success.;10. Support further awareness and communication of remaining uncertainties and made assumptions (errorfriendly planning).;11. Promote adaptive management as an innovative multiplelevel planning approach to overcome remaining uncertainties.;Albrecht, J., Schumacher, J.  Wende, W. (2014) The German impact mitigation regulation a model for the EUs nonetloss strategy and biodiversity offsets? Environmental Policy and Law 44 317.;Albrecht, J., Schumacher, J.  Wende, W. (2014) The German impact mitigation regulation a model for the EUs nonetloss strategy and biodiversity offsets? Environmental Policy and Law 44 317.lvares, F., RioMaior, H., Roque, S.  Nakamura, M. (2011) Assessing ecological responses of wolves to wind power plants in Portugal methodological constrains and conservation implications. Presentation at CWW, Trondheim, Norway, 25 May. Retrieved from authors 5 September 2013;Arnett, E.  Baerwald, E. (2013) Impacts of wind energy development on bats implications for conservation. In Adams, R.A.  Pedersen, S.C. (eds) Bat Evolution, Ecology, and Conservation. New York Springer. pp. 435 456.;Arnett, E., Erickson, W., Kerns, J.  Horn, J. (2005) Relationships between bats and wind turbines in Pennsylvania and West Virginia an assessment of fatality search protocols, patterns of fatality, and behavioral interactions with wind turbines. Final report submitted to the Bats and Wind Energy Cooperative, Austin, TX. Retrieved 20 June 2013 from httpwww.batsandwind.orgpdfpostconpatbatfatal.pdf;Arnett, E., Brown, W., Erickson, W., Fiedler, J., Hamilton, B., Henry, T., Jain, A., Johnson, G., Kerns, J., Koford, R., Nicholson, C., OConnell, T.,