Historically, wind resource mapping has been the predominant tool in locating promising wind farm sites in the landscape, although more recently, siting has become very much a multiple criteria analysis. For example, connectivity to the electricity grid (Lthi  Prssler 2011 McWilliam et al. 2012) and noise and visibility in the landscape are also important limiting factors for development (Pedersen et al. 2009 Molnarova et al. 2012). In terms of environmental factors, it is important to avoid negative impacts on biodiversity hotspots designated for priority conservation (European Union 2011). Even though protected areas may not be nogo zones in principle (see also Chapter 5 in this volume), acceptability for wind farm siting may be higher in disturbed areas (e.g. industrial, harbour, military and agricultural areas) than in natural areas (e.g. the sea, nature reserves and dunes on islands) (Wolsink 2000 Obermeyer et al. 2011). To identify hotspots for bird life, bird sensitivity maps have been developed to ensure that Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBAs) are spared from development (e.g. Bright et al. 2008 Tellera 2008 Carrete et al. 2012 Liechti et al. 2013). Using sensitivity maps to delineate nogo zones for wind farm development will, however, only be effective when they are taken up by industry and especially the regulatoryauthorities as for instance in Scotland (Scottish Natural Heritage 2009). Thus, sensitivity maps can provide important input to multiplecriteria assessments (Aydin et al. 2010 Van Haaren  Fthenakis 2011 Gorsevski et al. 2013 Tsoutsos et al. 2015), guide mitigation measures such as temporal shutdown at sensitive sites (Liechti et al. 2013), or both (Obermeyer et al. 2011). In regional planning for siting of wind farms, however, potential bird impacts (or other environmental costs) need to be offset against societal and technological benefits within a spatial context to locate wind farms at sites with least environmental impact. Such decisionsupport systems have been developed using geographical information systems (GIS) employing both expertbased (Aydin et al. 2010 Tsoutsos et al. 2015) and participatory (Van Haaren  Fthenakis 2011 Gorsevski et al. 2013) approaches. GISbased tools enable policy makers to prioritise among alternative strategies, avoid potential conflicts and make the planning process more inclusive and transparent (Ciaccia et al. 2010). Although it may be difficult to prove whether important bird habitat has been avoided in rejected wind farm projects, some studies give an insight into this. Van Haaren and Fthenakis (2011) found that none of the constructed wind farms they assessed in the state of New York was located within IBAs. Ferrer et al. (2012) compared EIA data with post construction data in Spain, and found that rejected projects had higher levels of conflict with birds relative to consented wind farms. However, they failed to find any significant relationship between predicted risk from EIAs and recorded mortality at the operational wind farms.;During EIA and the subsequent preconstruction design phase after a licence for a wind farm project has been received, potential impacts can be further minimised by adjusting the wind farm footprint. Impacts may be due to increased mortality from collisions or displacement because of disturbance and barrier effects. Measures to minimise bird impacts through adjustments in turbine configuration, micrositing and wind farm design are aimed at decreasing the hazard of the turbines to birds. Hazard signifies the potential for impact irrespective of events in the general form of Risk  Hazard  Exposure (May et al. 2015).