Figure 4.2 Example configuration of the searched area within a 120 m  126 m plot surrounding a turbine, with search classes (easy, moderate, difficult, very difficult and not searchable) represented by different colours (left). The volume of the cone within the search limits (right) represents the estimated proportion of carcasses, and thus relative carcass density, falling within the searched area.;Several methods have been proposed for estimating this proportion, which is termed a in this text. The simplest, which is a ratio of the area searched to the designated plot area (e.g. Drake et al. 2012), assumes homogeneous carcass density and is inappropriate because carcass density changes with distance and because the denominator of this ratio in most cases does not represent 100 of the carcasses (see Box 4.1). Another approach estimates the proportion of carcasses in distance rings (2, 5 or 10 m wide) around the turbines using count data correcting for ring specific carcass detection probability (e.g. Arnett et al. 2005 Koford et al. 2005 Kerlinger et al. 2006 Niermann et al. 2011). Jain (2005) used a nonparametric approach that applied the simple ratio estimate described above separately to each 10 m ring around a turbine. This approach assumes no anisotropy (directional dependence) and further assumes that the density within a 10 m ring is sufficiently constant to justify the ratio estimator within the ring. If there are adequate data, reducing the ring width can help to ensure that this assumption is satisfied. In general, this requires a larger number of observed carcasses than the parametric approach (J. Maurer, personal communication 2015).;Hull and Muir (2010) explored the use of ballistics models to predict the fall distribution of carcasses of different sizes at turbines with differing hub heights and blade lengths. Huso and Dalthorp (2014) proposed fitting parametric models to observed carcasses, accounting for differences in detectability due to vegetation and size. While parametric models can often capture the general density