Searcher efficiency also varies with the age of the carcass (WarrenHicks et al. 2013) as natural decay may lead to decreasing detectability of a carcass as it ages. The environmental conditions,the interval between searches and the scavenging pressure will determine how strongly ageing will affect searcher efficiency. In a dry environment, a desiccated carcass may persist for a long time, although it may be blown under a shrub and covered with sand and debris. In a more humid environment, deterioration may be more rapid as a result of rain and the attentions of carrioneating larvae and other scavengers that do not completely remove it.;Within a particular vegetation or visibility class designation, the heterogeneity of the microenvironment is probably the primary factor determining the efficiency of visual searchers. Carcasses that are most easily seen will be observed on the first search after arrival, leaving behind those that are more difficult to detect. Searcher proficiency thus declines with each successive search after carcass arrival. The factor by which the initial detection probability decreases with each search is captured by a parameter, here termed k (Huso 2011). Wolpert (2013) introduced a second parameter reflecting change in searcher proficiency due to carcass deterioration with age. Unless the search interval is extremely long (1 or 2 months) or deterioration is extremely rapid, as in hot, humid climates, the initial drop in searcher efficiency is likely to be due primarily to selective removal of the readily observable carcasses, with further drops being more influenced by the natural deterioration process. Searcher efficiency on the ith search after carcass arrival can be represented by pi  p1k(i  1), where p1 is searcher efficiency estimated from data from the first search after placement (optionally dependent on carcass age) and k as defined above. Ideally, k would be estimated by placing large numbers of carcasses in the field and tracking the change in searcher efficiency over several searches. However, search teams and scavengers remove a large fraction of carcasses in the first few searches, which has two important consequences (1) large numbers of trials carcasses would be needed to estimate searcher efficiency for carcasses that have been missed on several previous searches and (2) because most of the carcasses that are observed are discovered in the first few searches after arrival, decreases in searcher efficiency are much more consequential in the first few searches than in later searches. Therefore, k can usually be adequately estimated from two or three searches after carcass placement.