A fundamental problem with offsite compensation for wind farm related bat fatalities is that there is no empirical basis for determining how much of any given conservation measure, or combination of measures, is needed to offset fatalities, and over what temporal and spatial scale this should operate. Furthermore, for species experiencing a high level of cumulative fatalities, such as migratory treeroosting species in the USA and Canada (Johnson 2005 Arnett  Baerwald 2013), offsite mitigation to offset fatalities seems unlikely to prevent populationlevel effects. To illustrate, assuming that the estimated cumulative bat fatality calculations presented by Arnett and Baerwald (2013) are correct, and assuming that 196,190395,886 bats were killed in 2012 alone (of which 74,552150,437 or 38 were Hoary Bat Lasiurus cinereus), the amount of habitat protection, enhancement or creation required to truly offset these fatalities would seem to be too high to contemplate. In other words, even if we knew that x amount of hectares of forest habitat would produce y number of bats in z amount of time, compensatory measures alone seem highly unlikely to compensate for actual fatalities of those species that experienceextensive mortality at wind farms.;For some species, however, especially those experiencing low wind turbine kills that do not limit populations, compensatory mitigation measures may not only compensate for turbine fatalities but also provide longterm conservation benefits. For example, in the USA, Indiana Bat Myotis soldalis is federally listed as threatened and protected under the Endangered Species Act. The few Indiana Bats that have been or may be killed in the future by wind turbines could be compensated for with offsite measures such as cavegating (Crimmins et al. 2014) to reduce disturbance at hibernacula or through forest management and protection to promote roosting and foraging habitat (Lacki et al. 2007). While this is a reasonable example of how compensatory measures could mitigate lowwind turbine bat fatalities, the emergence of whitenose syndrome (Frick et al. 2010) has complicated the implementation of such conservation measures. Globally, there are likely to be other examples where some species of bats would benefit from offsite conservation measures. The challenge is first to implement avoidance and minimisation measures, and secondly, if offset mitigation is employed, to determine how much is enough to truly mitigate wind farm fatalities.;Some regulatory agencies in the USA and Canada have set thresholds for mitigation of bat fatalities that employ an average number of bats killed that, once reached, triggers an action. In the state of Pennsylvania and the Canadian province of Ontario, thresholds for initiating curtailment were set based on the annual mean number of bats killed per turbine (28 per turbine in Pennsylvania and 10 per turbine in Ontario) (Arnett et al. 2013a). This approach sets a dangerous precedent and has several flaws, not the least of which is the assumption that bat populations are currently stable and will remain so (Arnett et al. 2013a). Also, setting such triggers ignores the expanding development of wind farms leading to increasing numbers of bat fatalities per population or region. Wind turbines are one of many threats to bats, and assessments are needed to determine the effects of turbines acting in combination with other factors such as habitat loss and disease. Until such assessments and population data are available, Arnett et al. (2013a) suggest that stakeholders should collaborate on a site bysite basis to implement a mitigation strategy that meets objectives for both conservation and industry. For example, once a