The first objective of this chapter is to present methods used to survey wind farms for birds, particularly in relation to their susceptibility to collision impacts. Avian survey methods assessed herein were identified from accumulated worldwide literature on wind farm assessment and monitoring, but this is not exhaustive. The second objective is to assess the value of each of these methods for their comparability of rates and predictability of impacts according to the principles of wind farm assessment. The third objective is to explore sources of bias and uncertainty in estimating use rates from use surveys, which are most often used to predict impacts and sometimes subsequently applied in postconstructionmonitoring to help measure or explain impacts, including fatalities and displacement.;For the last objective, all the publicly available monitoring data used were collected in North America, where standardisation of methods has been strongly advocated to achieve comparability of use rates and fatality rates (Gauthreaux 1995 Anderson et al. 1999) and the research and monitoring data used were collected in the Altamont Pass Wind Resource Area (APWRA). No attempt is made to identify sources of uncertainty and bias in fatality rate estimates because this was the target of previous publications (Smallwood 2007 2013).;Survey methods used in wind farm assessment have included point counts or visual scans conducted both by day and increasingly at night, behaviour surveys, radar, telemetry, nest surveys and transect surveys. The basic methodology and a brief discussion of strengths and weaknesses are provided in the sections below. Every survey method used for preconstruction site assessment or post construction impact assessment should be examined closely for the value of the data in meeting objectives or testing hypotheses outlined in Table 1.2. Wind turbines potentially affect many bird species in multiple ways and these species vary greatly in daily and seasonal activity periods, and in numbers, behaviours and detectability. As a result, no single method is available for assessing wind energy impacts on all bird species.;Table 1.2 Preconstruction survey methods and typical types of predictions for impacts of wind farms on birds based on current knowledge.