Knowledge of the relationship of carcass density to distance from a turbine can perhaps be exploited to allow efficient search on roads and pads and other areas nearer the turbine in which both the density of the carcasses and the searcher efficiency is expected to be highest. Managers would only need to estimate total fatality in this easily searched area and then adjust this number by the proportion of carcasses expected to fall in the area. Huso and Dalthorp (2014) showed that this approach could result in unbiased estimates with variance comparable to those based on far more extensive searches. However, when the objective of the study is to ensure that the fatality of a species of special concern did not exceed some smalllimit, such as one to five per year, overall detection probabilities achieved by efficient searching of only roads and pads may be too small to allow precise inference for fatality. Huso et al. (2015) found that the influence of prior distribution and of uncertainty in the overall probability of detection is much less pronounced when the detection probability is greater than 45 than with lower detection probability.;The proportion of carcasses that arrive at a site and persist long enough to be observed during regular searches, r, can be estimated from models of carcass persistence using survival analysis methods (Bispo et al. 2013). In this context, describing persistence as the survival of a carcass may seem oxymoronic, but survival analysis methods (e.g. Lawless 1982) are well suited to this issue. Typically, carcasses of surrogate species, that is, species of similar size and coloration to the species at risk, are placed in the field and monitored daily until they are no longer present or the study ends. Because the exact time of removal is rarely known (unless the carcasses are monitored with cameras), the persistence time can only be narrowed to an interval between when the carcass was last known to be present and when it was first known to be absent. Alternatively, a carcass may persist until the end of the study, in which case its ultimate fate is not known all that is known is that it persisted up to that point. The first situation is termed interval censoring, the second is right censoring. Survival analysis is a field of statistics devoted to developing appropriate tools to account for this type of uncertainty in the data (Lawless 1982). Ignoring these data constraints can lead to biased estimates of persistence probability. Persistence in this context is defined as the continued presence of a carcass in a state that could be recognisable by a searcher. If the body of a bird is removed but a spot of feathers persists as evidence that it was once there, the carcass should be noted as still persisting.;Determining the proportion of carcasses persisting to the next search is more useful than estimating the average persistence time. As such, assumptions about the arrival rates within the interval between searches, as well as the shape of the persistence distribution, have to be made. The exponential distribution is often proposed as an initial persistence distribution because of its simplicity. It is a single oneparameter distribution that is a simple function of the mean persistence time and has a convenient