Carcass monitoring surveys were conducted at the Bluff Point and Studland Bay wind farms after they became operational. Fences toexclude mammalian scavengers were maintained at 27 of turbines across both sites. All turbines, both fenced and unfenced, were searched routinely within a 100 m radius of the tower base. Search frequency was initially informed by trials to determine rates of loss to scavengers and the observers capacity to detect carcasses. From 2007, searches were carried out twice weekly during the eagles display period from June to August inclusive, and the fledging period from midDecember to February inclusive, and fortnightly outside these periods (Hull et al. 2013). Assessment of the extent of undetected eagle collisions (Hydro Tasmania 2012 Hull et al. 2013) concluded that it is unlikely that significant numbers of eagle carcasses were missed, for several reasons (1) they are conspicuous (2) the search zone around the turbines was adequate to detect eagle carcasses where they fall after colliding with turbines (Hull  Muir 2010) (3) personnel on site had capacity to detect carcasses that may have been moved from the formal search zones (4) eagle carcasses in vegetation were found not to decompose readily and, even when scavenged, remains were identifiable (5) avian scavengers did not remove all evidence of carcasses and, although mammalian scavengers could remove carcasses, this was controlled at the subset of fenced turbines (6) survey intensity was informed by predetermined scavenger removal rates and (7) although a small number of eagles survived collision with a turbine, in all documented cases such birds were unable to fly and are likely to have been detected because both scavenger exclusion and farm fences prevented them from leaving the site.;The models estimates of annual collisions, based on the combined total of movement data from preconstruction and operation of the wind farms from 1999 until 2009 (Table 3.1), compare well with actual mortality of the eagle species at both wind farms (Table 3.2). The models estimate of the number of Wedgetailed Eagle collisions per annum at Bluff Point at a 0.95 avoidance rate was 1.5, which is the same as the mean number of documented mortalities per annum. Estimates provided for this case by model iterations for 0.90 and 0.95 avoidance rates fell within the 95 confidence interval of measured mortality rates. The models estimates for number of collisions at a 0.95 avoidance rate for Whitebellied Seaeagles at Bluff Point (0.5) and for Wedgetailed Eagles at Studland Bay (1.1) (Table 3.1) also