Figure 6.1 The mitigation hierarchy and associated decision gates for windenergy development. The gradient of coloration indicates the intensity of the impact (in red) relative to the timing of mitigation. The dashed line indicates no net loss.;The aim of this chapter is to provide an overview of the state of the science in mitigation options at the scale of a single onshore wind farm. This chapter assesses the options for mitigation of barrier and disturbance effects as well as collision risk. These effects are interrelated in the sense that the displacement of birds due to barriers and disturbance decreases collision risk, and vice versa. However, all three effects come at an energetic cost for the birds. This overview builds upon previous reviews related to the topic (Langston  Pullan 2003 Drewitt  Langston 2008 Langston 2013 Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015), as well as an extensive bibliography covering the existing knowledge base derived from empirical studies and general overviews. The literature was searched on Google Scholar and the WindWildlife Impacts Literature Database of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (httpswild.nrel.gov), using a variety of relevant search key words. The mitigation options are presented by following the steps in the mitigation hierarchy (Figure 6.1), presenting the framework within which they are set, and by providing salient cases for each of these steps. However, it should be stressed that so far there has been little practical application of mitigation options at wind farms, and documentation of the efficacy of implemented measures is often lacking. This review therefore details with the theoretical basis for mitigation, as well as presenting existing and documented case studies. Although the review is meant to be of global interest, it may be biased towards the European and North American situation owing to the existing knowledge base from these regions.;The best way to avoid any impact on birds, or other wildlife, would of course be to refrain from constructing wind farms in the first place. However, as wind energy is required to enable the transition towards more sustainable societies, this is not an option. Depending on the planned level of development, a need to balance renewable energy targets and biodiversity conservation through pre