The best way to avoid any impact on birds, or other wildlife, would of course be to refrain from constructing wind farms in the first place. However, as wind energy is required to enable the transition towards more sustainable societies, this is not an option. Depending on the planned level of development, a need to balance renewable energy targets and biodiversity conservation through preconstruction siting processes to ensure the lowest possible environmental costs per kilowatthour will emerge. This requires balancing green versus green environmentalism, where proponents espouse the global benefits of wind energy in reducing carbon dioxide emissions to mitigate climate change, and opponents point to the costs for the local environment (Warren et al. 2005 Groothuis et al. 2008). In principle, EIAbased consenting processes for single wind farm projects should ensure a balanced view. However, EIA usually only assesses the immediate and onsite effects of a proposed action, failing to evaluate the effects within the wider countryside (Jay et al. 2007). The key in reconciling arguments for and against wind energy lies therefore in scaling decisionmaking processes to intermediate spatial scales. By assessing the potential effects (environmental or societal) of a specific project at a regional spatial scale, that is, above the local opponent scale but below the nationalglobal proponent scale, both actors have to upscale or downscale their argumentation to fit the planning level (i.e. think global, act local  but plan regional see Warren et al. 2005). With respect to birds, regional approaches ensure not only that locally impacted single birds are considered, but also that impacts at a population level as well as on migratory flyways can be assessed (Langston  Pullan 2003).;Historically, wind resource mapping has been the predominant tool in locating promising wind farm sites in the landscape, although more recently, siting has become very much a multiple criteria analysis. For example, connectivity to the electricity grid (Lthi  Prssler 2011 McWilliam et al. 2012) and noise and visibility in the landscape are also important limiting factors for development (Pedersen et al. 2009 Molnarova et al. 2012). In terms of environmental factors, it is important to avoid negative impacts on biodiversity hotspots designated for priority conservation (European Union 2011). Even though protected areas may not be nogo zones in principle (see also Chapter 5 in this volume), acceptability for wind farm siting may be higher in disturbed areas (e.g. industrial, harbour, military and agricultural areas) than in natural areas (e.g. the sea, nature reserves and dunes on islands) (Wolsink 2000 Obermeyer et al. 2011). To identify hotspots for bird life, bird sensitivity maps have been developed to ensure that Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas (IBAs) are spared from development (e.g. Bright et al. 2008 Tellera 2008 Carrete et al. 2012 Liechti et al. 2013). Using sensitivity maps to delineate nogo zones for wind farm development will, however, only be effective when they are taken up by industry and especially the regulatory