Reconciling wind energy with the conservation of the environment necessitates that mitigation measures are implemented to eliminate all negative impacts caused throughout the life cycle of a wind farm. Appropriate siting of wind farms to avoid potential collisions, disturbance and barrier effects on birds is most effective (Marques et al. 2014). In cases where conflicts cannot fully be avoided, thorough preconstruction planning and design should identify further options for minimisation and reduction. As the success of mitigation measures may be highly site and species specific, a combination of measures adapted to the particular situation may be required (Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015). Although research has indicated that impacts may be spatially clustered, there is still an urgent need to integrate riskenhancing landscape features into the common practice of wind farm design to ensure birdfriendly micro siting of turbines (May et al. 2015). Measures either adjusting turbine operation or warning or deterring birds approaching operational turbines are the most promising means of reducing collisions that are cited in the literature. These measures, however, require a functional system to monitor bird flight behaviour continuously to limit loss of energy generation and habituation. To lessen displacement effects, on and offsite habitat alterations may be considered. Crucial targets of future research will be thorough assessments proving the efficacy of implemented mitigation measures in different settings and the application of welldesigned experiments (Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015). Compensation and especially restoration options with regard to wind farm development are still in their infancy. Although examples exist, there is a dire need for best practice guidelines on how to scale and implement appropriate options within a wind farms life cycle.;Although various mitigation measures have been proposed and tried for many decades, the consequent uptake of the entire mitigation hierarchy adaptively throughout the management cycle of a wind farm is still limited. How and to what extent the mitigation hierarchy is implemented varies considerably from country to country and ranges from proactive to more reactive approaches. Nevertheless, the insight since the mid2000s, not least from highprofile wind farms where a combination of public opinion and unacceptable impact levels has triggered research and experimentation such as Altamont Pass (California, USA), Smla (Norway) and Tarifa (Spain), has brought mitigation into the mainstream. This chapter has presented the prioritised steps of the