Spatial GIS tools have been used for a variety of conservation applications, such as identification of potential areas for reintroducing the Heath Fritillary butterfly Melitaea athalia in the UK (Holloway et al. 2003) and identification of suitable habitat for bats in Ireland (Lundy 2011). The use of spatial GIS to map biodiversity hotspots to aid location of wind farms began with the wind farm sensitivity index of Garthe and Hppop (2004), based on the vulnerability of a suite of seabird species to offshore wind farms. The index was based on nine factors flight manoeuvrability, flight altitude, percentage of time flying, nocturnal flight activity,sensitivity towards disturbance by ship and helicopter traffic, flexibility in habitat use, biogeographical population size, adult survival rate, and European threat and conservation status. This was applied to the Exclusive Economic Zone and the national waters of Germany in the North Sea to create a map with areas identified as of concern or major concern.;The first map for birds and onshore wind farms was produced in 2006 for Scotland (Bright et al. 2006 2008a 2008b). The Scottish sensitivity map was based on the SPA network plus the locations of 16 bird species of conservation concern, primarily listed in Annex I of the EU Birds Directive (EU 2009). These species were selected on the basis of known or suspected (i.e. from knowledge of the species ecology) sensitivity to wind farms, primarily via collision or disturbance displacement. The map collated existing data on the distribution of these species, and assigned a buffer around bird locations (e.g. nest sites) based on factors such as home range sizes and disturbance distances. These buffers were allocated a sensitivity rating of high or medium. Maps for all species and the SPA network were then overlaid and converted to a 1 km square grid, by selecting the highest sensitivity ranking for any species overlapping with that square. In the resultant map, 37 of Scotland is designated as high sensitivity, 31 as medium and 32 as low unknown (Figure 5.2). The map was supplied to local authorities, developers and consultants to help inform the early stages of the planning process. It was not intended to indicate nogo areas, or to be used at the site level or as a replacement for sitespecific assessment such as EIA.