An isolated population of the Australasian Crane, the Brolga Antigone rubicunda (Figure 3.4), occurs in the southeastern Australian state of Victoria. The population, estimated to contain 600 birds, is concentrated on the states southwestern volcanic plains. Brolga habitat includes shallow wetlands and meadows used for breeding and flocking. The birds also forage in lowlying pasture and cropped agricultural land. The availability of suitable wetlands is heavily influenced by annual rainfall. While the population seems relatively stable, it has been reduced over the past 150 years by permanent loss of wetlands drained for agriculture and remains threatened by the introduced Red Fox Vulpes vulpes as a predator of eggs and juveniles.;During the breeding season each pair of Brolgas occupies a large territory centred on a nest site in shallow water. As a result of the scattered distribution of suitable wetlands and territoriality, Brolgas are quite widely dispersed during the four to fivemonthlong breeding season. For the remainder of the year most of the birds move to a few traditional flocking sites where important group socialisation occurs. During flocking they also disperse into the local landscape to feed. The population is resident in its overall range year round. Brolgas fly relatively infrequently, primarily to move between locations of concentrated activity, such as between wetlands and preferred foraging areas.;Nine wind farms (approximately 850 MW) are operational and more have been approved or proposed within the range of the species in Victoria. A guideline to assessment of potential impacts on the Brolga has been published by the Department of Sustainability and Environment (2012). The guideline calls for the integrated use of collision risk modelling and population viability analysis to guide decisions about impacts on the Victorian Brolga population and to quantify mitigation measures for planned wind farms within the species range. It sets the objective for each wind farm to achieve a zero net impact on the Brolga population.;Collision risk modelling and population viability analysis were undertaken as part of environmental impact assessment for Stockyard Hill Wind Farm, proposed by Origin Energy. In 2009, the project was planned to consist of 242 turbines. Two options for the size of turbines were under consideration. Collision risk was assessed using the Biosis model for each of the two turbines and to account for different numbers of flights for the three components of the species annual cycle the breeding season, the