The decision to give consent to a wind farm is usually based on an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). Although EIA procedures and practice may vary from country to country (Wood 2003), there is a consistent purpose to identify, predict and evaluate environmental effects of development proposals before major decisions being taken and commitments made (International Association for Impact Assessment 1999). This also includes the evaluation of alternatives to the proposed action to enhance appropriate siting and design (Langston  Pullan 2003). Theconsequent (proposed) mitigation of environmental impacts is a key stage within the EIA process, where developers are to mitigate impacts following an accepted mitigation hierarchy (PricewaterhouseCoopers 2010). The mitigation hierarchy aims to (1) avoid, (2) minimise, (3) reduce, (4) compensate for environmental impacts, and (5) restore baseline conditions throughout the life cycle of a wind farm. These prioritised steps are linked to the life cycle of a wind farm and related decision gates (a) planning, (b) design, (c) construction, (d) operation, and (e) decommissioning (Figure 6.1). Repowering of a wind farm towards the end of its life cycle with modern, larger and more efficient turbines may create feedback opportunities to further minimise impacts at an existing site. However, the mitigation hierarchy is not systematically implemented in wind farm planning (Langston  Pullan 2003 Tinker et al. 2005), which is largely due to the lack of incentives as part of EIA guidance (Cole 2011 Kiesecker et al. 2011b) and the uncertainty and scale of the impacts (Moilanen et al. 2006 Kppel et al. 2014). Following the precautionary principle, lack of knowledge and scientific uncertainty should be credited to nature, placing the burden of proof on the proponent of the development. Projects that present uncertain potential for significant risk require all sequential steps in the mitigation hierarchy to be addressed to prevent the risk of unacceptable impacts (Stewart 2002). However, the precautionary principle alone may not suffice in balancing climate change mitigation with biodiversity conservation. To take into account uncertainty in potential impacts, and to apply the mitigation hierarchy actively throughout the life of a wind farm, Kppel et al. (2014) advocate adaptive management. Although still in its infancy, adaptive management may effectively mitigate environment impacts, as well as include the required targeted monitoring at an appropriate spatial scale (Sims et al. 2012).