Consideration of environmental concerns by SEA or other strategic spatial planning can help to speed up the planning process for wind farms. Conversely, failure to consider environmental issues at an early stage can slow down development. In Slovenia, for example, the government set up an ambitious wind energy investment programme in 1999, despite a relatively modest wind resource. Three areas were identified as most suitable for development based on wind resource, despite the fact that all three areas were Natura 2000 sites, designated for Griffon Vulture and Golden Eagle, both of which are vulnerable to collision. Subsequent objections from nature conservationists have resulted in only two wind turbines being erected in Slovenia to date. A sensitivity map has since been produced by DOPPS (BirdLife Slovenia) (Bordjan et al. 2012), which classifies just 19 of Slovenia as highly sensitive to wind farm development. In Spain, proposals for a huge number of wind farms without an SEA process or proper consideration of environmental impacts meant that the autonomous regions were forced to call a halt to new projects while they prepared wind energy plans (BirdLife Europe 2011). Similarly, Romania embarked upon an ambitious wind energy development programme in 2006, but without any SEA process, meaning that around half of the 8,400 proposed wind turbines were in the Dobrogea region, one of the richest areas for biodiversity in Romania (BirdLife Europe 2011). Over half of the area is in the Natura 2000 network, as well as being one of Europes most important bird migration routes and the only wintering area of the Redbreasted Goose Branta ruficollis, a critically endangered species (BirdLife Europe 2011). Non governmental organisations lobbied the government for an SEA, but this was not begun until 2011 with bird surveys for a sensitivity map (BirdLife Europe 2011).;Spatial GIS tools have been used for a variety of conservation applications, such as identification of potential areas for reintroducing the Heath Fritillary butterfly Melitaea athalia in the UK (Holloway et al. 2003) and identification of suitable habitat for bats in Ireland (Lundy 2011). The use of spatial GIS to map biodiversity hotspots to aid location of wind farms began with the wind farm sensitivity index of Garthe and Hppop (2004), based on the vulnerability of a suite of seabird species to offshore wind farms. The index was based on nine factors flight manoeuvrability, flight altitude, percentage of time flying, nocturnal flight activity,