An overview of mitigation measures applicable at different project and development stages of wind energy generation is thenpresented, as evidenced through a review of international peer reviewed publications. A wide spectrum of mitigation options, either empirically investigated or simply observed, as based on the mitigation hierarchy of avoidance, minimisation, reduction, compensation and restoration, was found to be available. The focus of mitigation efforts is mainly upon a few faunal groups such as birds (especially raptors and some migratory species), bats and a few other mammals such as large carnivores. Future challenges are pinpointed wherever possible.;The case is then made that planning and operation strategies can be designed to foster biodiversity conservation for green energy. Adaptive management at the project level is highlighted as essential to achieve this aim, as emphasised by a case study from the Alta East Wind Energy Facility in California, USA. To conclude, a series of recommendations considered to represent the basis of future best practice are presented.;While there is an ambitious, yet achievable economic drive for rapid wind energy development, there is, nevertheless, support for environmentally conscious wind energy development stemming from proper guidelines and regulations at both policy and project levels. In addition, informal guidelines, plans and enactments aim to guide environmentally sound wind energy development while protecting proponents from possible litigation.;Policies of direct relevance to wind energy include both climate protection policies (e.g. Renewables Directive 200928EC) and species protection policies. For the latter in the European Union (EU), the European Council has established a clear goal to halt the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services  by 2020 and restore them insofar as possible, and step up the EUs contribution to averting global diversity loss (Commission of the European Communities 2008). The policies mentioned have been, for the most part, incorporated into the national legislation of each EU state to provide the future course of action. To promote successful wind energy planning, stringent requirements for granting permission for developments and mitigation measures need to be enforced