The way in which sensitivity maps have been received and usedhas varied between EU countries. In France, every region defines wind energy zones, and the receipt of subsidies depends on locating within them (Table 5.2). Wildlife sensitivity maps are also used in spatial planning in Scotland, Belgium and parts of Germany (BirdLife Europe 2011). In some countries, such as Wales and Scotland, zoning for wind power does not affect subsidy levels, but location within an area identified as suitable increases developers chances of obtaining planning permission (BirdLife Europe 2011). It is planned that the Irish sensitivity map will be incorporated into cumulative assessment guidelines. In a number of other European countries, such as England, Greece and the Netherlands, BirdLife partners have developed sensitivity maps (BirdLife Europe 2011), but these have yet to be used routinely in spatial planning. As the creation of sensitivity maps for birds and other wildlife continues, it is anticipated that they will be included more and more in national planning processes.;Designated sites, such as the EU Natura 2000 network, are not no go areas for development, but are likely to represent particularly sensitive sites to wind farm development. Special Protection Areas afford some of the highest protection for birds, and have been classified as the most suitable territories to deliver conservation for Annex I of the EU Birds Directive (EU 2009) and regularly occurring migratory bird species. These sites require more stringent assessment to show that there will be no significant adverse impact on the site and its designated features. As such, BirdLife recommends that wind farm development in designated sites and Important Bird and Biodiversity Areas be avoided where possible (BirdLife Europe 2011).;While some species are concentrated in designated sites, others are more widely dispersed, meaning that the designated site network alone is not sufficient to indicate sensitive areas for wildlife. Within the EU, the Birds and Habitats Directives require protection of certain priority species and habitats (e.g. Annex I birds) outside designated sites. The areas most likely to be sensitive to wind farms include