In general, more studies of postconstruction bat activity arewarranted to support carcass surveys and provide information on changes in baseline activity acquired during preconstruction assessments. Acoustic data recorded at the height of the nacelle can provide specific times and conditions, when paired with weather and turbine operations data, when bats are active and at risk. Moreover, if bats are indeed attracted to wind turbines or to landscape features created during development, such as forest gaps or linear edges, then differences in activity rates or presence can be assessed by comparing pre and postconstruction acoustic monitoring results. Postconstruction monitoring also may reveal unanticipated impacts from projectrelated changes in habitat structure, such as clearing of a previously forested area.;Radio detection and ranging, or radar, is a versatile tool to study the flight behaviours and activity patterns of nocturnal animals on a scale that cannot be matched by other techniques (Eastwood 1967 Gauthreaux  Belser 2003 Mabee  Cooper 2004 Desholm et al. 2006 Gauthreaux  Livingston 2006 Mabee et al. 2006a 2006b). Information on the theory and operation of radar is provided by Skolnik (1990) and Larkin (2005), whereas the reviews by Bruderer (1997a 1997b) and Diehl and Larkin (2005) describe how various kinds of radars operate and how these may be used in wildlife research and monitoring (Arnett et al. 2007). Radar data in pre construction studies can provide passage rates and altitudes of targets moving across the proposed wind farm and adjacent landscape. The technology has also been used during post construction surveys to assess flight behaviours of animals approaching wind turbines or wind farms and to estimate exposure rates (Desholm  Kahlert 2005 Cryan et al. 2014). In addition, radar studies have been used specifically to study the emergence and flight patterns of large colonies of bats, such as Brazilian Free tailed Bat Tadarida brasiliensis (Williams et al. 1973 Horn  Kunz 2008).;Various radar technologies are available, including marine radar, NextGeneration Radar (NEXRAD) and tracking radar. Marine radar, originally designed for use on boats, is commonly used in the USA to study passage rates, flight paths and altitudes of targets at a specific project site during spring and autumn migration (Mabee  Cooper 2004 Mabee et al. 2006b) (Figure 2.2). These systems are relatively inexpensive, are available off the shelf, require little modification or maintenance, and are dependable, easy to operate