In future years, we expect to develop a second phase of approx. 300MW, which will be the subject of its own Environmental Impact Assessment and Scoping Report.;1. Development phase (associated with the works required to obtain consents to construct the project) 2. Preconstruction phase (postconsent award) 3. Construction phase 4. Operation phase (operation and maintenance of the generating wind farm) 5. Decommissioning;1.5 Consenting Procedure Energy developments are controlled by Electricity Act (1989) rather than the Planning Acts. For the construction of a power generation facility, such as a windfarm, Section 36 of the Electricity Act requires that an application be made to Scottish Ministers through the Scottish Government Energy Consents Unit, with additional principal consents obtained under Section 5 of the Food and Environmental Protection Act, 1985, and Section 5 of the Coast protection Act 1949. Clarification is currently being sought as to how this will be applied after recent legislative changes. This is a different process to the conventionally understood planning procedure for major developments, and there is no statutory inclusion of public participation within the provisions of the Electricity Act. However Section 36 guidance suggests that engagement should be guided the Governments Planning Advice Note 811. Furthermore, the Act was recently amended by the 2004 Energy Act, which broadened the scope of Section 36 to include certain marine and navigational matters. Consequently there is no longer the requirement to promote a private bill in Parliament , with its associated public consultation. We believe that this project is of national importance. It offers Scotland the opportunity to be at the forefront of innovation in the largescale development of lowcarbon electricity generation. The development of offshore wind power in the challenging environment of the North Sea at depths of up to 60m will be of international significance, as well as having important local implications, and