5.5 Scope of Consultation At this early stage in the process it is not possible to clearly scope the all of the aspects of the project which will be within the scope of consultation, however, some broad subject areas include  Scope of the EIA  Micrositing of turbines  Mitigation measures  Maximising benefits from the project 5.6 Recording , Reporting And Sharing Information The Stakeholder Engagement Strategy will bring Moray Offshore Renewables Limited in contact with a large volume of individuals and organisations. We will maintain a database to record that contact, the issues which are raised and the response to those issues. This will enable the publication of a Consultation Report along with the Environmental Statement prior to the submission of application. This document will allow stakeholders to review the engagement process, identify how consultation has influenced the project, and understand how and why decisions about the development proposals have been reached. It is understood that the Crown Estates intend to propose a national Stakeholder Engagement Strategy to address strategic issues, and we look forward to engaging with the process to enable an efficient twoway flow of information to enable effective engagement. At local level, it is recognised that The Crown Estates representatives will have a significant interest both in sharing information gained through our engagement, and participating directly in that process, and our early sharing of information will enable this.  6. Post Application Engagement This document has focussed on preapplication stakeholder engagement. Although consultation with stakeholders becomes the responsibility of statutory bodies after the application is submitted, Moray Offshore Renewables will continue to work closely with stakeholders, and with the Scottish Governments Energy Consents Unit while our formal application is being considered. 7. Engagement During Construction and Operation Moray Offshore Renewables will put in place suitable structures and procedures to ensure effective community engagement during the construction and operation and maintenance of the development.