In 2009 Moray Offshore Renewables Limited (MORL) was formed as a joint venture company owned 75 per cent by EDP Renewables (EDPR) and 25 per cent by Sea Energy Renewables Limited (SERL). EDPR is currently the worlds third largest wind energy company, with almost 6GW of installed wind generation capacity across 8 nations, including Spain, Portugal, Poland Brazil and the USA. SERL provides unrivalled offshore development and deployment experience gained through years of successful largescale offshore project development in the oil and gas industry more recently its key personnel pioneered the successful Beatrice offshore wind demonstrator project in the Moray Firth.  Together these companies bring a strong and clear commitment to renewable energy developments, with unique deep water capabilities and a proven track record for delivery and operating at scale. 1.2 Development of Offshore Wind in the Outer Moray Firth  In September 2008, The Crown Estate invited tenders for the development of offshore wind as part of the Round Three Offshore Wind Farm Leasing Programme. The invitation was for the exclusive rights to work with The Crown Estate in the development of offshore wind generation in specified zones. These zones are located around the UK coastline, including the Irish Sea, and the Bristol Channel, and their development is aimed to deliver up to 25GW of generating capacity, representing as much as one quarter of the UKs electricity requirements by 2020. On 8 January 2010, The Crown Estate announced the successful development partners for each zone, and signed an exclusive zone development agreement with Moray Offshore Renewables Limited as their partner to develop upwards of 1.3GW of wind energy in Zone 1  which is located on the Smith Bank, in the Moray Firth, around 15 miles from the Caithness coast. 1.3 Development Description Moray Offshore Renewables propose to develop 1.3 GW  1.5GW of generation potential  which is roughly equivalent to the output of a large conventional thermal powerstation such as Cockenzie near Edinburgh, with the capability of supplying  million homes with electricity. For a detailed map of the development area, see Annexe 1. The main features will include  Developed over two phases within two locations in the zone  Approximately 260 turbines (dependent on technology)  Under current technology, it is proposed to use 5MW turbines, 3 bladed, 152m tall, with 26m sea clearance  Four offshore substations