5.2 The Environmental Impact Assessment  This application for development requires an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) which will describe the project and consider the potential environmental impacts (including socioeconomic impacts) in detail. The outcome of the assessment will be detailed in an Environmental Statement (ES). The Environmental Impact Assessment process itself makes provision for concerns about the impact of the project to be raised and appropriately addressed before the application is submitted. It also makes available information about the project through an established procedure for consulting with a limited number of (usually statutory) consultees. The broader voluntary stakeholder engagement process will, as far as possible, mesh with the formal process for statutory consents however the methods, materials and timescales for engagement will require to be tailored to suit the different needs of a much broader audience of stakeholders. 5.3 Scoping Report And Supplementary Literature  Before the Environmental Impact Assessment is undertaken, its scope and terms of reference will be established through a scoping report which will be submitted to the Scottish Governments Energy Consents Unit, and to statutory consultees. This report forms the first part of the EIA process, and will provide information about the project and focus attention on the key impacts of the project and thereby the priority issues to be addressed. The report will include   Location and site of the development  Description of the development  The proposed scope, structure and methodology of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Statement  The potential environmental impact of the project In addition to supplying this document to statutory consultees, Moray Offshore Renewables Limited have made a commitment to make this document available on a dedicated project website (and to make available paper copies where required), thus giving early opportunity to all interested parties to engage directly with the developers about the project. We recognise, however that the Scoping Report is a technical document, and will not be a suitable format for encouraging engagement with a broad range of stakeholders. The Scoping Report will therefore be used as the basis for drafting more accessible supplementary literature, specifically for the stakeholder engagement process. This will include briefing notes with the provision for stakeholder feedback which will be used to communicate information to and seek views from a broad range of strategic and community stakeholders.  5.4 Structure of Engagement