Previous experience of such events held to engage with stakeholders about the Beatrice Demonstrator Project highlights the real benefits of this form of engagement. A large number of events were well attended in large and small communities, providing interested members of the general public with direct access to the project team, who were able to discuss technical, social and environmental questions which were raised.  It is proposed that a programme of public exhibitions will be planned after the publication of the scoping report, to enable stakeholders to comment on the development, and commence the process of issue identification and discussion at an early stage in the process.  A further programme of public exhibitions is proposed after the publication of the Environmental Statement and Consultation Report in order to disseminate information about how consultation has shaped the development proposals, and how decisions about the final application have been reached. 4.4 Project Website Increasing use of the internet means that this is a convenient way for many stakeholders to engage with proposed developments. Moray Offshore Renewables Limited will establish a dedicated project website to provide updates on the project, access to key documents and contact information for the project team. The website will provide links to EDPR, SERL and the Crown Estates. The website will provide interested stakeholders the opportunity to register for email updates, and a dedicated public email address will allow stakeholders an easy means of providing comment and feedback on the proposed development. 4.5 Stakeholder Group MeetingsFocussed Topic Meetings Detailed specific engagement is expected to be undertaken with specialist interest groups during the development phase of the project according to need, which will be assessed following the first stages of engagement.  As the project develops, there is likely to be a requirement to discuss specific topics which are of interest to more than one stakeholder. For example the issue of navigation will be of interest to a range of organisations, and a single meeting for all interested participants may be beneficial. Engagement will be undertaken with existing community groups such as  Community Councils  Schools  Uniformed organisations to ensure that the engagement is representative.