3.2 Stakeholder Management Group The large number of stakeholders, spread across a wide geographic area means that local knowledge will be important to develop a deployment plan for this strategy which will be effective in meeting the different requirements of stakeholders across the area.  After issuing our first letter of introduction, it is our intention to establish a small stakeholder management group, involving a representative range of stakeholders, which will have the remit of determining how this strategy will be deployed locally, including the location and scheduling of public exhibitions, etc, the identification of additional stakeholders, scoping of issues to be addressed through consultation, review of printed materials, such as newsletters, questionnaires, etc, and best methods for their distribution. This group will be established with advice and guidance from the local planning authorities, following an influence vs. impact analysis of stakeholders. It will meet in advance of the proposed series of public meetings which are anticipated to be held in summer 2010 (see diagram 1) to allow this part of the process to be shaped locally, in order that it should meet local requirements. 4. Techniques for Stakeholder Engagement While the method for engagement with statutory consultees is defined to meet legislative requirements, heavily focussed on document review, the engagement of strategic and community stakeholders required a range of different approaches to enable and encourage effective engagement, with different methods employed to suit the needs of different groups. The most effective way of engaging all stakeholders will be to allow them to influence the direction their involvement takes. The Stakeholder Management Group will be important in tailoring appropriate approaches for different stakeholder groups. Prior to engagement it is anticipated that we will develop a standard question set which will be agreed by the Stakeholder Management Group. It will be used with engagement method to allow understanding of  Benefits  Issues  Options