3. Stakeholder Identification and Management The process of stakeholder identification and management will follow best practice guidelines set by the British Wind Energy Association 5 with the aims of inclusiveness and equality, and giving stakeholders the opportunity to determine, within the context of this strategy, how they would wish to be consulted. 3.1 Stakeholder Identification The Moray Offshore Renewables Limited stakeholder engagement plan has gained from the experience of consulting with stakeholders for the Beatrice Demonstrator Project, while recognising that the prospect of a much larger wind power development will have broader implications for stakeholders. Many stakeholders will be interested in the project and will want to be engaged in dialogue. It is our aim to provide broad and fair access, and according to the principles set by the British Wind Energy Association, enable stakeholders to participate as equals in the engagement process6 by delivering a consultation process which respects the different needs and expectations of stakeholders. From our experience in the offshore wind industry, a preliminary stakeholder identification exercise has already been undertaken, identifying stakeholders from the 16 broad subjectcategories listed below;Aviation Civil bodies having a role in the management of aircraft and their movements, e.g. CAA, NATS, local airports.;Business  Enterprise Organisations with a remit in the broad area of promoting and sustaining commercial business, employment and investment, e.g. Scottish Enterprise.;Communities Organisations or associations having a bearing on the social or economic life of an area, e.g. local tourist boards, local enterprise bodies, community councils and community representatives.;Environmental Organisations other than Government bodies with an environmental remit e.g. RSPB, Moray Firth Partnership, Greenpeace, WDCS.;Fisheries Organisations other than Government bodies with an interest in marine or freshwater fisheries, e.g. SFF, SWFPA, Salmon Fisheries Boards.;Grid Organisations related to the grid and grid connection, e.g. Scottish National Grid;Organisations having a remit for, or an interest in, landscape and cultural heritage, e.g. National Trust for Scotland, Scottish Wildlife Trust.;Navigation and Shipping Organisations having a remit for, or interest in, the management of shipping and safe navigation, e.g. MCA, Port Authorities, UK Hydrographic Office;Other Users All users of the project area, excluding commercial fishermen, e.g. oil and gas companies, recreational sailors, recreational divers.;Regional Councils Authorities with a regional remit and a wide involvement with communities, business employment and sustainable development, e.g.