4.1 Briefings and Newsletters In order to provide a broad audience with the necessary information to express views and opinions on the project, briefing notes and newsletters, offering the opportunity to comment on the project will be made available and distributed directly to stakeholders. Different stakeholders will have interests in different aspects of the project, and materials will be drafted to suit both sectoral and geographic interests. The Stakeholder Management Group will play an important consultative role in the preparation of such materials. The first of these will be the project introductory letter which will be distributed to all stakeholders and used to broaden the preliminary stakeholder list. 4.2 Media Updates At key stages throughout the project, information will be disseminated to the local press through issuing news releases. The local press will also be used to advise of public events such as exhibitions to enable broad public access. Moray Offshore Renewables Limited expects to develop a strong relationship with representatives of the local media through the development of the project the nature of the project is expected to be of interest to national media, especially at key stages of the projects development and deployment. 4.3 PreApplication Public Exhibitions Public exhibitions will be held at suitable locations along the coastline in settlements from Fraserburgh to Inverness, and Beauly to Wick. They will be advertised through the local press and through local community councils, notice boards, etc. the Stakeholder Management Group will have an important role in determining the most effective deployment of this programme of exhibitions. The exhibitions will provide a range of means of disseminating information including  A project story board display  General information about offshore windfarms  Project briefing notes which offer the opportunity for stakeholder feedback  Video displays  Face to face discussion with representatives of the project  Capturing opinions  views on the development Such events provide an opportunity for broad stakeholder involvement, and encourage participation by people who may be discouraged from contributing in the forum of a conventional public meeting such exhibitions will be held over the course of a day and evening, and are thus accessible to more people than a public meeting whose audience is restricted to those who can attend at a given time. These will be held in a variety of venues (community halls, shopping centres etc.) with guidance from the Stakeholder Management Group.