Renewables Organisations Organisations contributing to the development and management of renewable energy, e.g. British Wind Energy Association, Scottish Renewables Forum.;Statutory Consultees All the statutory consultees, e.g. Crown Estate, Scottish Government, Scottish Natural Heritage, Fisheries Research Service.;Tourism All local and national bodies with a remit to develop, promote and sustain tourism, e.g. Visit Scotland.;This list is not exhaustive, and the identification of stakeholders will be an ongoing process as the project develops, with existing stakeholders having the opportunity to identify additional individuals organisations for inclusion. The development of the list will be the subject of discussion with the relevant local planning authorities and the Energy Consents Unit. Within those subject identification categories, stakeholders can be grouped under three broad headings for the purposes of developing an engagement strategy i. Statutory Consultees;This group is generally easiest to identify as stakeholders and their engagement are defined through consultation. Although the process for engagement with statutory stakeholders is defined by legislation, they will also be included within the broader nonstatutory consultation as they can bring much to the discussion through their experience and perspective.  ii. Strategic Stakeholders This group includes the organisations and individuals who have a specific interest or expertise in the project at national, regional or local level, and whose views and expertise in a particular aspect of the projects impact or development are significant, but who would not have the opportunity to be consulted directly through the statutory process. This includes organisations such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, Friends of the Earth, the Royal Yachting Association, etc. These organisations often have specialist subject or local knowledge, or the project may have a specific bearing on their activities. It is therefore important that they are given early opportunity to engage with the project.  iii. Community Stakeholders This group includes organisations or individuals because they live, work, or pursue other activities in the area which the project will affect. Although the statutory process enables statutory consultees (such as elected representatives) to comment on their behalf, it is absolutely essential that the people whom the project will affect are informed about the activity we will be undertaking in their community, and have the opportunity to be in direct communication with us to comment on and influence the development. The early establishment of this relationship is vital if the development of offshore wind in the outer Moray Firth is to be regarded with pride, both locally and nationally.