This note sets out issues to do with the planning process for onshore wind development. It applies to England only.;The planning process used to determine onshore wind development will depend on the size of the proposed development. Wind farms which have an output of over 50MW will go through a development consent process and will be determined by the Secretary of State, although this process has not been used to date in England. Wind farms under 50MW are determined by the relevant local planning authority. There are also some permitted development rights for small domestic wind turbines, where planning permission is not required at all.;Planning policy for onshore wind is contained in a number of documents, principally the Governments National Planning Policy Framework, the National Policy Statement for Renewable Energy Infrastructure and online Planning practice guidance for renewable and low carbon energy. Local authorities will have policies on onshore wind development in any uptodate local plan for a particular area. While there are no nationallyset minimum separation distances between wind turbines and housing in England, one council has successfully set guidelines for a minimum distance for its area in the Allerdale Borough Council Local Plan.;The former Government temporarily expanded the planning appeals recovery criteria to allow the Secretary of State to take the final decision on onshore wind appeals. This expired in April 2015. The new Government has not yet said whether it plans to renew this power.;In its online Planning practice guidance the former Governments aim was to make clear that the need for renewable energy did not automatically override environmental protections and the planning concerns of local communities. Compulsory preapplication engagement exists for more significant onshore wind which is for development involving more than two turbines or any turbine exceeding 15 metres height.;Some examples of reasons for acceptance and rejection of wind farms are set out in this note. Statistics on this are available from the Governments Renewables Planning Database Project, and the Renewables UK, UK Wind Energy Database (UKWED).