Business rate retention In England, under the Local Government Finance Act 2012 and the NonDomestic Rating (Renewable Energy Projects) Regulations 2013 SI No. 108, from April 2013, all of the business rates income from new renewable energy projects, including onshore wind farms can be retained by the local planning authority, (i.e. the decision maker, for the relevant renewable energy project at county or district level).;Goodwill payments There are also community benefits (in addition to section 106 obligations) provided by industry, rather than Government. In some cases wind farm developers have made what they call goodwill payments to a local community. These payments are offered outside of the planning system, but have led to criticisms that planning permission for windfarms can be bought and sold. The Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE) has criticised this practice.;These payments range from grants to carry out immediate one off improvements to local amenities (i.e. new playgrounds for children), through to annual funding to support longer term projects which could have a wider and more lasting legacy (i.e. environmental enhancement schemes and energy efficiency programmes).;A community fund One way for wind energy developments to provide community benefits is for money to be paid into a fund for the use of the community. This is where the owner of a wind farm distributes funds directly to community projects, often on an annual basis. This can be linked to the output of the wind turbine or can be linked to the financial revenue generated by the wind farm. An example of this is the Wadlow Wind Farm Community Fund in Cambridgeshire.;Contribution to energy efficiency schemes Some wind energy projects contribute funds to sustainable energy initiatives within the local community, often through a third party specialising in providing these services. This could include, for example, improving home insulation levels and heating efficiency or installing smallscale renewable energy equipment such as solar water heating. Energy advice and education activities might also be included.;Wider environmental and societal benefits A wind developer may also chose to directly deliver local improvements. Examples are improvements to local facilities, environmental improvements, tourism or recreational provision.;Provision of cheaper electricity According to the Government some developers have explored ways to offer reductions to electricity bills for local communities in the vicinity of wind farms. An example of this is the RES Local Electricity Discount Scheme which offers an annual discount on the electricity bills of those properties closest to a RES wind farm.