Communities may benefit financially from the development of onshore wind power in their areas, from a number of different mechanisms. The former Governments Community benefits from onshore wind developments Best practice guidance for England gives best practice guidance and examples of community benefits for onshore wind. Examples of the different sorts of community benefit in practice are also set out in DECCs Onshore Wind Call for Evidence Government Response to Part A (Community Engagement and Benefits) and Part B (Costs), June 2013.;Section 106 agreements Concerns about new infrastructure are sometimes met by the local council imposing planning obligations on developers. New developments in a particular area may bring with them wider impacts on the local area, for example construction of a new wind farm might bring more people to the area who use local public facilities and infrastructure. New facilities may therefore need to be built or upgraded to cope with this extra demand and this needs to be paid for. Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 (as amended) allows developers to enter into planning obligations with a local authority in order secure planning permission for a development.;Planning obligations to support new development must help meet the objectives of the local plans and neighbourhood plans for a particular area. The amount available from section 106 obligations is a matter for negotiation between a developer and the local council. Therefore there is no standard amount given for renewables projects. Many councils, however, issue their own Planning Obligations Supplementary Planning Document (SPD). These documents explain a Councils approach to planning obligations, its aims for the types of planning obligations that may be sought and the methodology for calculating the amount of these obligations. Having this document helps a local council refute allegations that planning permission can be bought if it sets out in advance how much money will be required in what circumstances.