In England there are no national minimum separation distances set between wind turbines and housing and there are no proposals from Government to introduce them. The last Governments view, was that distance alone did not necessarily determine whether the impact of a proposal is acceptable or not. It believed that distance played a part, but only alongside other factors specific to the local context, such as topography, the local environment and nearby land uses.13;What can happen, however, is that in some specific circumstances, it may be possible for a local planning authority to set its own separation distance in its own local area. In July 2014 Allerdale Borough Council became the first, (and currently only), council to successfully introduce a separation distance between wind turbines and housing in its local plan for the area. In the Allerdale Borough Council Local Plan, which was adopted earlier in July 2014, a policy on separation between wind turbines and residential housing of 800 meters was included. The policy is worded so that this separation distance does not have to apply rigidly and gives flexibility to decision makers not to have to use it in all cases;225. In order to address community concerns and in the interests of residential amenity and safety, a minimum separation distance of 800m between wind turbines (over 25m to blade tip) and residential properties will be expected. It is recognised that in some cases due to sitespecific factors such as orientation of views, landcover, other buildings and topography it may be appropriate to vary this threshold, where it can be demonstrated through evidence that there is no unacceptable impact on residential amenity. Shorter distances may also be appropriate if there is support from the local community.;Local plans must be examined by an independent planning inspector before they can be adopted, to test that they meet legal requirements, compliance with Government policy and that they are based on robust evidence. The policy on wind farm separation distances in the Allerdale Borough Council was scrutinised in depth by the planning inspector. In the inspectors report the inspector concluded that there was nothing in