216 R. Bourguet et al.a statistical average and a chaotic value. This decomposition applied to NavierStokes system leads to an open system where Reynolds tensor intro duces six new unknowns. The previous system coupled with a twoequation k closure scheme enables an efficient simulation of the flow, especially with ChenKim modification 3 that introduces sensitivity on the turbulent dis sipation production term. This physical model is computed on a dedicated autogenerated C type meshgrid (50,000 cells) where the profile is fixed and inlet Neumann conditions are variable in order to simulate the evolution of the flow incidence around the blade during a revolution. StarCD (AdapCO, www.cdadapco.com) was selected as CFD code and the numerical scheme used is a PISO predictorcorrector one.;The optimization approach used is a parametric design of experiments (DOE)response surface models (RSMs) method implemented in Optimus (Noesis, www. noesissolutions.com). The first step consists in computing a reduced physical model based on a specific shape parametrization. Blade pro files are parameterized by a 7controlpoint Bezier curve built on Bernstein function basis, and thus, the shape parameters are the coordinates of the control points. Solidity is fixed to 0.2. Blade profile chords are constant. As a consequence, only control point ordinates are variable. Moreover, this first study focuses on symmetric profiles, which means that chordsymmetrical con trol points are coupled. The use of Bezier curve implies that each control point displacement changes the whole profile curve.;The objective of the DOE is to sample each design parameter in order to well describe the shape design space. Taking into account of the rather low number of control points, a factorial approach is convenient. For each point of the DOE, the three cost functions are evaluated;The results are approximated by a minimization of the quadratic error between the points evaluated and the RSM for each objective function. This least square approximation problem consists in solving a linear system for each cost function. In order to compute a multicriteria optimization, an hybrid cost function surface is obtained by an equally weighted summation of the RSM associated to each initial criterion.