7 7.1  3.75 1.8  0.9 55were used. Seven different meshes were tested (see Table 49.1). The discs were fixed to the floor with a vertical cylinder of diameter 0.05D, which is in agree ment with standard wind tubine mast diameters.;Measurements were performed in the Malavard wind tunnel of the Laboratoire de Mecanique et dEnergetique. It is a closecircuit type with a test section of 2 m wide, 2 m high and 5 m long. A turbulence grid made of square tubes is located at the entrance of the test section. Its grid cell size is 100 mm and the tube crosssection is 25 mm. It generates a homogeneous and isotropic turbulence with a turbulence intensity of 3.54.5 in the used part of the test section. The first set of measurements is focused on homogeneous freestream conditions. In that case the porous disc is located in the middle of the test section. For the second set of experiments, the freestream conditions were rep resentative of the offshore atmospheric boundary layer. The boundary layer which was developing on the wind tunnel floor (made of fairly rough wooden plates) in presence of the turbulence grid had the characteristics of the neutral offshore atmospheric boundary layer at a geometric scale of 1400. The rough ness length is z0  3 mm in full scale, the power law exponent is   0.11. The streamwise turbulence intensity at z  20 m in full scale is Iu  7.3. In that case, only the 100 mmdiameter discs made of mesh 6, combined with a 1D high mast, were used. At the chosen geometric scale, these discs replicate 40 mdiameter wind turbines.;The three components of velocity were measured with a Dantec triple hotfiber probe connected to the Dantec StreamLine system. The probe was fixed on a 3D automated traverse.;A parametrical study was performed in a homogeneous freestream flow in or der to define the influence of the disc size, the porosity level, the mesh cell size and the wire size on the flow. Mean velocity and turbulence intensity were measured for each case along the horizontal crosssection of the disc.