Table 56.1. Identified stiffness parameters by means of measured (simulated) eigenfrequencies with an accuracy of three correct decimal places;It is shown in 3 that the development of determinants using Cramers Rule and the application of the cofactor to (56.5) lead to a problem which is equiv alent to (56.1);It is shown in 3 that the development of determinants using Cramers Rule and the application of the cofactor to (56.5) lead to a problem which is equiv alent to (56.1)pfq  qfp  0. (56.7);With a nonsingular linear combination of the determinantal maps one obtains linear eigenvalue problems for the model parametersfs  1sf  sf. (56.8);These problems are wellposed. There is no incompleteness of information because the number of required eigenfrequencies depends only on the number of stiffness parameters.;Numerical Example In the current state of method validation, measurement data are not yet available. Therefore, artificial measurement data are generated by applying scatter to the exact eigenfrequencies as resulting from the analysis. It is supposed that the middle area of a cantilever beam model with three elements (denoted by one to three beginning from the bottom) and nine DOF has a stiffness degradation of 10. In the first column of Table 56.1 the first three eigenfrequencies for the bending modes are shown with an accu racy of three correct decimal places. The solution of the eigenvalue problems determines the set of stiffness parameters as shown in the second column. A stiffness parameter equal to one refers to an undamaged structural element. The decrease of the second stiffness parameter points to a damage in this region. The value of 0.897 indicates a stiffness reduction of 10.3 which is quite close to the damage applied before. Furthermore, damage of the correct structural element is reflected since the stiffness parameters of elements one and three remain almost identical to one.;A validation of the method by means of a sensitivity analysis was carried out. Therewith the influence of several parameters of the method on the accu racy of the quantification was investigated. The parameters of the method