0mN Ln(m) , (26.2)where Ln(0) represents the load resulting from the full network with all N nodes. This assignment guarantees that the network remains robust against a onenode failure, i.e., no overload failures of other nodes and no network wide cascading failure. A consequence of this gain in network robustness is the increase of investment costs from N;where Ln(0) represents the load resulting from the full network with all N nodes. This assignment guarantees that the network remains robust against a onenode failure, i.e., no overload failures of other nodes and no network wide cascading failure. A consequence of this gain in network robustness is the increase of investment costs from Nn1 Ln(0) to invest  N;So far the flow paths have been based on the hop metric. Now a loaddependent metric is introduced. The basic idea is the following A loadbased distance is introduced as;ifload  arg (min dif) (26.4)then minimizes the distance dif between source i and sink f.;(26.3), (26.4) is not complete. The paths ifload are not only determined by the loads Ln of the nodes, the former themselves also determine the latter via;In order to find a consistent solution of (26.3)(26.5), these equations have to be treated iteratively.;The loadbased shortest paths have the tendency to avoid the mostloaded nodes and help to relax the load of the latter. Other nodes which had a small load before acquire a little larger load. As expected, the loaddependent metric turns a heterogeneous load distribution into a more homogeneous one. This sets the stage for a second benefit. Heterogeneous networks with flow paths based on the loaddependent metric are less expensive to establish robustness against onenodeinduced cascading failure. Extensive simulations prove that the respective investment cost investload  investhop is smaller than for the hop metric.;A third and maybe largest benefit shows up with the twonodesremovalanalysis. The (N1) analysis does not guarantee network robustness against a simultaneous failure of two or more nodes. A further increase of capacity beyond (26.2) is needed