I. Tchiguirinskaia, D. Schertzer, S. Lovejoy, J.M. Veysseire;Summary. An accurate assessment of wind extremes at various spacetime scales (e.g. gusts, tempests, etc.) is of prime importance for a safe and efficient wind energy management. This is particularly true for turbine design and operation, as well as estimates of wind potential and wind farm prospects. We discuss the consequences of the multifractal behaviour of the wind field over a wide range of spacetime scales, in particular the fact that its probability tail is apparently a powerlaw and hence much fatter than usually assumed. Extremes are therefore much more frequent than predicted from classical thin tailed probabilities. Storm data at various time scales are used to examine the relevance and limits of the classical theory of extreme values, as well as the prevalence of powerlaw probability tails.;Further to his poem 1 presenting a turbulent cascade as the fundamen tal mechanism of atmospheric dynamics, Richardson 2 showed empirical evidence that a unique scaling regime for atmospheric diffusion holds from centimeters to thousands of kilometers. It took some time to realize that a consequence of a cascade over such a wide range of scale is that the probability tails of velocity and temperature fluctuations are expected to be power laws 3, 4. Indeed, this is a rather general outcome of cascade models, inde pendently of their details 5 the mere repetition of nonlinear interactions all along the cascade yields the probability distributions with the slowest possible falloffs, i.e. powerlaws, often called Pareto laws. The critical and practical importance of the power law exponent qD of the probability tail, defined by the probability to exceed a given large threshold s, could be understood by the fact that all statistical moments of order q  qD are divergent, i.e. the theoretical moments  denoted by angle brackets .  are infinite;Further to his poem 1 presenting a turbulent cascade as the fundamen tal mechanism of atmospheric dynamics, Richardson 2 showed empirical evidence that a unique scaling regime for atmospheric diffusion holds from centimeters to thousands of kilometers. It took some time to realize that a consequence of a cascade over such a wide range of scale is that the probability tails of velocity and temperature fluctuations are expected to be power laws 3, 4. Indeed, this is a rather general outcome of cascade models, inde pendently of their details 5 the mere repetition of nonlinear interactions all along the cascade yields the probability distributions with the slowest possible falloffs, i.e. powerlaws, often called Pareto laws. The critical and practical importance of the power law exponent qD of the probability tail, defined by the probability to exceed a given large threshold s, could be understood by the fact that all statistical moments of order q  qD are divergent, i.e. the theoretical moments  denoted by angle brackets .  are infinitefor large s  Pr(v  s)  sqD  any q  qD  vq   (17.1)