5 times the dissipation of kinetic energy  timesthe separation distance r. It is approximately true for high Reynolds number flows when r is in the inertial subrange, and, assuming an infinitely long inertial subrange, can be derived rigourously. Despite this fact it simplifies the simulation algorithms immensely to assume the velocity field to be a gaussian random field. Furthermore, it is not clear how important the departure from gaussianity is for the dynamic loads, though some attempts to quantify this has been undertaken. For example, for a turbine in rather complex terrain some loads increased by 15 comparing a nongaussian simulation with a gaussian with the same second order structure 7.;u(x, y, z, t)  u(x  Ut, y, z, 0), (15.1)where x is the coordinate in the mean flow direction, U the mean wind speed. The velocity vector is denoted by u and the fluctuations around the mean is u. All second order statistics of the fluctuations can be expressed in terms of the covariance tensor;It does not depend on x if homogeneity is assumed. This is usually a good assumption for the horizontal directions x and y, but less optimal for the vertical.;Rij(r) exp(ik  r)dr, (15.3)is called the spectral velocity tensor. This has been modelled by Mann 4 for a homogeneous shear layer, and compared well to atmospheric surfacelayer data over flat terrain. Based on this model a Fourier simulation algorithm, which essentially is a superposition of sinewaves in 3D space, may be devised 5.;The model by Veers 10, which was improved by Winkelaar 11, is basedon onepoint spectra and coherences, i.e. the absolute value of the normal ized crossspectra. The phase of the crossspectra is typically ignored and so is incompressibility. Also, empirical information of all crossspectra is not available.;A group at Ris has simulated 3D fields by the model and sampled thevelocities on a helix emulating the passage of a point on a wind turbine blade through the air 8. They compared this with measurements made by a pitot tube mounted on a rotating blade. The comparison is shown in the right plot of Fig. 15.1. The left plot in this figure shows the helix sampled spectra from a Veers simulation of only the longitudinal wind component (lower points) and of the two horizontal component. It seems to be important to simulate all three components of the velocity field to obtain realistic spectra.