Jens N. Srensen and Valery L. Okulov;When wind turbines are clustered in a wind farm the power production will be reduced due to the reduced freestream velocity. However, an even more important impact on the economics of a wind farm is the increased turbulence intensity from the wakes of the surrounding wind turbines that increases the fatigue loadings. Even though many wake studies have been performed over the last two decades 1, a lot of basic questions still need to be clarified in order to elucidate the structure and dynamic behavior of wind turbine wakes.;In the present work various vortex models for far wakes are analyzed,resulting in the development of a new analytical wake model. In the model the vortex system is replaced by N helical tip vortices of strength (circulation)  embedded in an inner vortex structure representing the vortices emanating from the inner part of the blades and the hub. The developed model forms the basis for a supplementary work on stability of the tip vortices in the far wake behind a wind turbine by Okulov and Srensen 2.;As basic hypothesis for describing the far wake it is assumed that the wake is fully developed and that the vorticity is concentrated in N helical tip vortices and a hub or root vortex lying along the system axis. This (N1)vortex system, proposed originally by Joukowski in 1912 for a twobladed propeller 3, consists of an array of infinitely long helical vortex lines with constant pitch and radius (see Fig. 45.1a). The model is the simplest way of describing the far wake behind a propeller or a wind turbine. The axial velocity of the vortex system is defined in helical variables (r,     zl) by the formula;As basic hypothesis for describing the far wake it is assumed that the wake is fully developed and that the vorticity is concentrated in N helical tip vortices and a hub or root vortex lying along the system axis. This (N1)vortex system, proposed originally by Joukowski in 1912 for a twobladed propeller 3, consists of an array of infinitely long helical vortex lines with constant pitch and radius (see Fig. 45.1a). The model is the simplest way of describing the far wake behind a propeller or a wind turbine. The axial velocity of the vortex system is defined in helical variables (r,     zl) by the formulauz(r, )  V0  wz(r, ), (45.1)