In the examples here Morisons equation is used for the wave load andoverturning moment, (2.1), where u is the horizontal water velocity, z the vertical coordinate and h the water depth. The aim of the load calculation can be to assess extreme loads or fatigue. In both cases nonlinear wave properties may be important, but for the extreme loads sometimes a monochromatic design wave may be sufficient. The deepwater waves are usually considered linear. Then a Gaussiandistributed stochastic process symmetric around the mean water elevation can model the time and space varying wavy surface. For steep waves this is not correct. The wave crests are higher and sharper while the wave troughs are shallower and flatter than in the Gaussian model. In shallow areas the nonlinearities are further amplified by the influence of the bottom.;The deepwater wave climate is not sufficiently well known. Wave measure ments were initiated in Swedish water at a few places in the Swedish wave energy programme in the 1970s but have not been much evaluated. A more viable possibility for the Baltic is to use wavedata from the WAM4 1 model erected for the Baltic Sea and run at ICM in Warsaw 2. The Baltic WAM4 model is applied to a quadrilateral grid with 0.15(ca 16.7 km). To validate the model it was run for periods during which, also waves were measured ca 8 km off the Polish coast with directional wave rider buoys. The significant wave height was chosen for comparison. For onshore winds  100the correlation coefficient between WAM4 waves and measured waves was above 0.8 3.;In a Swedish investigation on wave loading on the Bockstigen windpower plant 4 SWAN 5 was used to transfer deepwater waves closer to shore. The position and bottom topography for Bockstigen is shown in Fig. 2.1. As an example using a sea state defined by a JONSWAP spectrum Hs  4.5 m, Tp  6.7 s, cos2 spreading and wind velocity 20 ms from southwest as input to the model the resulting output inshore at Bockstigen was Hs  2.7 m, Tp  8.9 s, so energy has been dissipated but also shifted in the frequency domain. Especially the inshore spectrum exhibits a secondary hump around the double peak frequency, which is important and typical for shoaling waves. The waves of this hump may be a mixture of short firstorder waves and bound waves propagating with the same celerity as the primary peak waves. The pressure and particle velocity in the bound waves attenuate slower with depth than corresponding linear waves.