Obukhov profile for stable stratification (L200 m) and a profile additionally taking into account the effect of an inversion (h200 m) (Lange et al., 2004a). Clearly, the wind speed gradient with height increases when the inversion is included. The gradient is then larger than the gradient of the power law profile used in the IEC guidelines (IEC614001, 1998) for wind turbine design, which do not take atmospheric stability into account. This means that the fatigue loads on e.g. the blades will in these situations be larger than anticipated in the design guidelines. Over land stability is always near neutral at high wind speeds due to the low surface roughness. Over water, on the other hand, sta ble stratification also occurs at higher wind speeds. Therefore, atmospheric stability might have to be included in the description of the wind shear.;With the example of the vertical wind speed profile offshore it was shown that specific meteorological conditions exist at the potential locations of offshore wind farms, i.e. over coastal waters in heights of 20 to 200 m. Since the interest in the wind conditions at these locations is new, the specific meteorological knowledge still has to be improved. The behaviour of the atmospheric flow over the sea differs from what is seen over land due to the different properties of the water surface. The findings still have to be investigated further, but it is clear that specifically offshore wind conditions can have important effects on wind power utilization, e.g. for turbine design and wind resource calculation. This leads to the conclusion that offshore wind power meteorology is an important research field, which is needed for the efficient development of offshore wind power and which has the potential to produce new meteorological knowledge about the atmospheric flow over the sea.;1. Barthelmie RJ (1999) The effects of atmospheric stability on coastal wind climates. Meteorological Applications 6(1) 3947;2. Barthelmie RJ (2001) Evaluating the impact of wind induced roughness changeand tidal range on extrapolation of offshore vertical wind speed profiles. Wind Energy 4 99105;4. Csanady GT (1974) Equilibrium theory of the planetary boundary layer withan inversion lid, BoundLayer Meteor. 6 6379;5. GWEC Wind Force 12 (2005) A blueprint to achieve 12 of the worlds electricity from wind power by 2020. (available from www.ewea.org)