294 P. Schaumann and F. Wilke;294 P. Schaumann and F. Wilkeanalysed joints and loads, only strains and stresses normal to the weld toe are taken into account (critical plane approach).;As a benefit of both local concepts fatigue design can be carried out uncoupled from the standard SN curves for given structural details and the application to any local weld geometry is possible. At the same time the number of influencing parameters increases which is shown in the following chapter.;The bottom part of the reference structure and the most important data are shown in Fig. 54.1. For the scatter diagram of the chosen Baltic Sea location see 1. The relatively small turbine leads to dominating fatigue damage from wave loading.;Figure 54.2 shows the resulting member SN curve for a fictitious pulsating nominal stress in one brace of the top tripod node. According to 5 three different engineering approaches for the notch strain concept have been ap plied (1. Heataffected zone material without residual stresses and R  1 2. heataffected zone material with R  0 3. base material (BM) with residual stresses in the order of the yield strength and R  1). The notch stress curve has been shifted to a probability of failure Pf 50 (1.38) to provide a basis for comparison with the results obtained through the use of the UML.;In high cycle regions beyond N  2106, interesting for offshore structures, the compliance is acceptable. This leads to the conclusion that the notch stress approach seems to provide cycles up to crack initiation for high plate thicknesses and notch dominated problems. Figure 54.2 also shows an obvious handicap of the notch strain approach. Besides the usual scatter in the local weld geometry it is hard to determine the parameters which govern the design without experiments. Because of the higher robustness regarding the influenc ing parameters the notch stress approach (NSA) is used for further parametric studies.;Water depth 25 m Hub height 80 m Turbine mass 100 t Main tube diam. 4000 mm Diam. of diagonals 2000 mm Angle of diagonals 458 max t 80 mm Material S 355