Summary. We compare different schemes for the short time (few seconds) predic tion of local wind speeds in terms of their performance. Special emphasis is laid on the prediction of turbulent gusts, where data driven continuous state Markov chains turn out to be quite successful. A test of their performance by ROC statistics is discussed in detail. Taking into account correlations of several measurement posi tions in space enhances the predictability. As a striking result, stronger wind gusts possess a better predictability.;Whereas the three dimensional velocity field of the air in the atmosphere can be supposed to be described by the deterministic NavierStokes equa tions, possibly augmented by equations for the temperature and humidity (and hence density of the air) and with suitable boundary conditions, a local measurement yields data which appear to be random. In fact, deterministic be haviour of the local velocities is very unprobable, since (a) the NavierStokes equations contain already nonlocal interactions through the selfgenerated pressure field, and (b) the local wind speed changes due to the drift of the global wind field across the measurement position.;Data analysis of wind speed recordings yields results which are fully consistent with stochastic data. We use time series recorded in Lammefjord by the Ris research centre 1. These data are obtained from cup anemometers mounted on measurement masts at heights of 10, 20, and 30 m above ground, taken with 8 Hz sampling rate. The data sets report the absolute values of the wind speeds in the xyplane, together with the angle of incidence. In total, we use 10 days of data. Due to the nonstationarity of the data, the auto correlation function cannot be reliably determined. In any case, correlations of the wind speed decay slowly, whereas the increments, i.e. the differences of suc cesive measurements, seem to be uncorrelated. Histograms of the differences vt  vt of the data and the moving 1minute mean velocities vt, conditioned to the value of vt, show an almost Gaussian behaviour with variances which