Fig. 45.2. Average axial (a) and azimuthal (b) velocity profiles calculated by ex tended model (boldline) and by the Joukowski model (dashedboldline). The symbols are experimental data measured by Medici  Alfredsson 5 in different crosssections downstream from the rotor plane za  2.8 (square) 3.8 (diamond) and 4.8 (bullet);Fig. 45.2. Average axial (a) and azimuthal (b) velocity profiles calculated by ex tended model (boldline) and by the Joukowski model (dashedboldline). The symbols are experimental data measured by Medici  Alfredsson 5 in different crosssections downstream from the rotor plane za  2.8 (square) 3.8 (diamond) and 4.8 (bullet)time they need to fit to experimental observations. The proposed model obeys both properties. To validate the extended model (45.3) we compare it to the experimental results of Medici and Alfredsson 5 see Fig. 45.2. A very good agreement between modeled and measured velocity distributions are seen for both the axial and azimuthal velocity components. In contrast to this, the Joukowski model (45.1) results in an unrealistic 1r behavior for the azimuthal velocity and a constant for the axial velocity.;An interesting finding in the measurements of 5 was the appearance of a low frequency in the wake. The frequency was an order of magnitude smaller than that of the rotational frequency of the tip vortices. Medici and Alfredsson at tributed the phenomenon to be similar to the vortex shedding occurring in the wake behind a solid disc determined from the Strouhal number. We will utilise their experimental results to validate the developed model. In Fig. 45.3a we depict a meandering wake subject to lowfrequency oscillations. The measured time signal of the axial velocity (Fig. 45.3c) near the boundary of the wake is dominated by two frequencies with very high peaks superposed the highest frequency. Such amplifications may be of crucial importance for the lifetime of wind turbines located fully or partly in a wake. By adjusting the amplitude of the low frequency to the measurements we compute a time signal of the velocity (Fig. 45.3d) by decentering the extended model (45.3) as shown in Fig. 45.3b. The resemblance of the two time histories is striking. Hence, with the new model, it is possible to model and predict unsteady behavior of far wakes behind wind turbines.