28 J. Tambke et al.where u is the friction velocity of the air flow and w the one of the wa ter flow while air and water are the respective densities. This is equivalent to assuming that the shear stress is constant across the interface between air and water. The constant stress defines the wave boundary layer, extending from a height zB above to zB below the water level. This wave boundary layer is similar to the surface layer onshore where the logarithmic wind profile is valid.;These conditions allow the determination of the velocities of the two fluidsat certain heights as an implicit function of a given geostrophic wind. The full profiles can be derived in the following way Due to the constant shear stress the wind profile in the wave boundary layer has a logarithmic shape for neutral thermal stratification. Nonneutral conditions can be modelled with an additional stability function m and the MoninObukhov (MO) length L. Expressed in a coordinate system where the horizontal component of the stress tensor  h is parallel to the xaxis the profile can be written as;at certain heights as an implicit function of a given geostrophic wind. The full profiles can be derived in the following way Due to the constant shear stress the wind profile in the wave boundary layer has a logarithmic shape for neutral thermal stratification. Nonneutral conditions can be modelled with an additional stability function m and the MoninObukhov (MO) length L. Expressed in a coordinate system where the horizontal component of the stress tensor  h is parallel to the xaxis the profile can be written asu(z) ;, (5.1)and is valid for zR  z  zB  is the von Karman constant and zR is the theoretical height where the momentum transfer from the air to the wave field is centred. The above mentioned drift velocities are uair  u(zR)  uL and uwater  u(zR)  1 29uL. As a result of the above assumptions and the;and is valid for zR  z  zB  is the von Karman constant and zR is the theoretical height where the momentum transfer from the air to the wave field is centred. The above mentioned drift velocities are uair  u(zR)  uL and uwater  u(zR)  1 29uL. As a result of the above assumptions and thechoice of the coordinate system the drift (uL, vL) at the very small height zR is collinear to the geostrophic wind (uL, vL)  1;This theoretical, though curious relation has no relevance insitu, since neither (uL, vL) close to the waves nor G can be measured directly. Note that in the chosen coordinate system ug  0 and vg  0.