The scaling and intermittent properties of wind velocity have been studied in the turbulence community for several decades (see reviews in 1,3,4). We recall here some basic properties of this framework. The RichardsonKolmogorov energy cascade develops on the inertial range, between the large injection scale (of the order of several tens or hundreds of meters) towards dissipa tive scales (of the order of millimeters). In the inertial range, wind velocity fluctuations are scaling they possess a powerlaw spectrum;E(k)  k (13.1)with   53 for K41 turbulence 5 intermittency however leads to a  value slightly larger than 53. Here we may define intermittency as the property of having large fluctuations at all scales, having a correlated structure large fluctuations are much more frequent than what would be obtained for Gaussian processes 1, 3, 4. Intermittency is then classically character ized considering the probability density function (pdf) or the moments of the velocity fluctuations V  V (x  )  V (x). For large mean veloc ities, Taylors hypothesis may be invoked to relate time variations V  V (t)V (t) to spatial fluctuations one may then study time intermittency of wind velocity considering the scaling property of moments of order q  0 of the fluctuations V;(V)q   (q), (13.2)where (q) is the scale invariant moment function, which seems rather univer sal for fully developed turbulent flows in the laboratory or the atmosphere, for moments small than 7. This function is nonlinear and concave (3)  1 is a fixed point (2)    1 relates the second order moment to the power spectrum scaling exponent the knowledge of the full (q, (q)) curve for integer and noninteger moments provides a full characterization of velocity fluctuations at all scales and all intensities.;Wind gusts may be generally defined choosing a time increment  and a threshold velocity  a gust corresponds to a situation when V (t1)V (t2)   with t1  t2   6. In practice, for such event to occur, the condi tion V (t1)  V (t2)   should also be realized for some times verifying t1  t2  . We then choose here to fix a small time increment  and to con sider large fluctuations at this scale. In the following we choose   3 since 3  s extreme gust correspond to a standard of the American Society of Civil