124 J. Cleve and M. Greiner;124 J. Cleve and M. Greineraccomplished very successfully by means of random multiplicative cascade processes (RMCP) 57. The basic idea of our model is to extend fBM with multifractal properties of RMCPs.;accomplished very successfully by means of random multiplicative cascade processes (RMCP) 57. The basic idea of our model is to extend fBM with multifractal properties of RMCPs.fBM BH (t) is an extension of ordinary Brownian motion where the;fBM BH (t) is an extension of ordinary Brownian motion where thevariance of increments (BH(t)  BH(t))2  (t  t)2H have a Hurst exponent 0  H  1 other than H  1 2 see e.g. 2 for details. Regard;variance of increments (BH(t)  BH(t))2  (t  t)2H have a Hurst exponent 0  H  1 other than H  1 2 see e.g. 2 for details. Regarding RMCPs we pick the most successful variant 6, where the dissipation;L(T t) is defined such that a desired universal multifractal modelcorrelation structure of the dissipation is established. L and T are a correla tion length and time, respectively.;u t  MBH (22.1)of a multifractal field M   and an incremental fBm BH with Hurst exponent H  13. The process (22.1) is a direct generalisation of the multi fractal random walk proposed in 1. Note that the ansatz (22.1) multiplies two fields defined at the dissipation scale. Although beyond the scope of this con tribution, it would be very interesting to compare this approach with an im plementation where velocity increments associated with an energy flux evolve from the integral scale down to the dissipation scale, which appears closer to the intuitive physical picture of a turbulent energy cascade, see e.g. 3.;With this ansatz it is guaranteed that the correlation structure of thedissipation   (ut)2  (MBH )2 is determined solely by the RMCP. Because M and BH are uncorrelated, the twopoint correlation function (x1)(x2)  (M(x1))2(M(x2))2(BH (x1))2(BH (x2))2 factorises. The second factor does not depend on the twopoint distance x2  x1.;Similarly, the properties of the velocity field are given predominantly bythe properties of fBm. The standard way to characterise the statistics of the velocity field are structure functions Sn(r)  (u(xr)u(x))n  rn. Plain fBm would result in the linear spectrum of K41 theory. The Mextension leads to the nonlinear spectrum of the scaling exponents.;The simple combination (22.1) of the two processes would fall short of modelling turbulence for at least two reasons. fBm is a nonstationary and symmetric process whereas turbulence is stationary and skewed. A generali sation of multifractal fractional Brownian motion is needed. Guidance comes