98 H. Kantz et al.upstream. This can be easily explained by the translation of the wind field across the measurement site. In practice, upstream measurements would be available only for very selected wind directions. Therefore another finding is very relevant The gust prediction is also strongly improved if we use bivariate data recorded at the same mast, namely the wind speeds at 20 and 30 m height above ground, in order to predict the speed at 20 m (Fig. 16.4 right panel). This improvement is absent if we use the same inputs for predictions at the height of the upper, 30 m anemometer. Hence we conclude that there are non symmetric vertical correlations which supply the information for improved predictions in the lower ranges of the boundary layer. This will be the issue of further investigations.;In summary, predictions of wind speeds based on local measurements onaverage could not be considerably improved when compared to persistence. However, exploiting additional information contained in the conditional prob abilities of a Markov chain model, we could in principle equip every prediction with an expected error bar. The prediction of turbulent gusts in terms of a time dependent risk was more successful, where a conversion of this risk into a warning yields a considerable hit rate for moderate false alarm rates if we focus on high gust strengths and if we use as additional inputs velocity mea surements taken at a higher position on the same measurement mast. Similar to many other phenomena, also wind speed data are long range correlated. Since Markov models cannot take into account any long range memory effects, models beyond Markov might yield enhanced predictability.;1. Lammefjord data obtained from the Ris National Laboratory in Denmark,httpwww.risoe.dkvea, see also httpwww.winddata.com.;3. N. G. van Kampen, Stochastic Processes in Physics and Chemistry, North;4. F. Paparella, A. Provenzale, L. A. Smith, C. Tarrica, R. Vio. (1997) Local;4. F. Paparella, A. Provenzale, L. A. Smith, C. Tarrica, R. Vio. (1997) Localrandom analogue prediction of nonlinear processes, Phys. Lett. A 235 233;5. M. Ragwitz and H. Kantz (2002) Markov models from data by simple nonlinear;5. M. Ragwitz and H. Kantz (2002) Markov models from data by simple nonlineartime series predictors in delay embedding spaces, Phys. Rev. E 65 056201;6. H. Kantz, D. Holstein, M. Ragwitz, N.K. Vitanov (2004) Markov chain model;6. H. Kantz, D. Holstein, M. Ragwitz, N.K. Vitanov (2004) Markov chain modelfor turbulent wind speed data, Physica A 342 315;7. K. Fukunaga, Introduction to Statistical Pattern Recognition,;8. S. Hallerberg, E.G. Altmann, D. Holstein, H. Kantz, Precursors of extreme;8. S. Hallerberg, E.G. Altmann, D. Holstein, H. Kantz, Precursors of extremeincrements, httparxiv.orgpdfphysics0604167