. (2S)where   0N is the circulation ratio i.e. the central (hub) vortex strength normalized by the total multiple circulation of the tip vortices. The dimen sionless hub vortex pitch  keeps the same value as that of the multiples and the hub vortex radius   rhuba is normalized by a, the radius of cylinder supporting helical vortex axis of the multiple. Note that BA does not contain any term with wind speed implying that translatory motion from wind does not influence the stability.;The stability condition of the tip vortex configuration only depends on thesign of B. The vortex system is unstable if B  0, where the relative velocity field in the vortex position has an unstable critical point (Fig. 46.1a) and for B  0 the point is stable (Fig. 46.1b).;Analysis of (46.1) shows that a model in which the vortex system is replaced by N tip helical vortices of strength  and a line root vortex (  0) of strength N (Joukowskis model) is unconditional unstable. This, however, seems to in conflict with numerous visualizations 5. The most likely expla nation for this apparent contradiction is that the model of Joukowski is too simplified to describe all types of rotor flows. Indeed Joukowskis model should be considered as special case with a constant circulation distribution along the blade span. Contrary to this the (2R), (2L) and (2S) hub models with a finite core radius are more realistic to describe far wake properties for real operating regimes of wind turbines. Their analysis shows that the stability of tip vortices to a large extent depends on the radial extent of the hub vorticity as well as of the type of vorticity distribution. In order to evaluate the influ ence of core size for both tip and hub vortices, neutral curves for equilibrium helical vortex arrays are plotted in Fig. 46.2. Note that increasing the hub vortex size leads to loss of stability and that increasing the size of tip vortices makes the vortex system more stable. Increasing the number of vortices in the arrays leads to less stability. Qualitatively this agrees with the results of visual observations. However, more experimental data is needed in order to validate the model more thoroughly.;In the present work the stability problem of a multiple of N helical vortices to infinitesimal space displacements is generalized to include the hub vorticity distribution. The solution allows us to provide an efficient analysis of some of the experimentally observed stable vortex arrays in far wake behind multi blade wind turbines.