Fig. 16.2. Left panel Prediction errors of different prediction schemes for data from day 191. Right panel Prediction errors of the Markov chain predictor for se lected subsamples where the standard deviation of the cpdf p(vt1vt, . . . , vtm1) is smaller than ,   0.25, 0.3, 0.35, . . . from bottom to top;Fig. 16.2. Left panel Prediction errors of different prediction schemes for data from day 191. Right panel Prediction errors of the Markov chain predictor for se lected subsamples where the standard deviation of the cpdf p(vt1vt, . . . , vtm1) is smaller than ,   0.25, 0.3, 0.35, . . . from bottom to topprocess with short range memory. In the left panel of Fig. 16.2 we show the performance of these predictors on data from a rather turbulent day, as a func tion of the prediction horizon (all parameters were empirically optimized). The performance is measured in terms of the root mean squared (rms) prediction error, e ;(vt  vt)2. Since wind speed data are not smooth, predictionsby extrapolations are evidently bad. The fact that the three other predictors perform almost equally demonstrates that the simple model vt1  vt  t with   1 is rather good Going beyond this hypothesis (which is fully in corporated in the persistence predictor) yields only minor improvements. To account for nonstationarity, the coefficients of the AR(20) model were fitted on moving windows using the past 1,200 s of data. Markov chains of order 1030 are again slightly superior.;The Markov chain model is flexible enough to model the observed nonconstant noise amplitude. Using the variance of the cpdf as additional infor mation during the forecast process, we can restrict forecasts to those times t when the standard deviation of the actual cpdf p(vtkvt, . . . , vtm1) is smaller than some parameter . The rms forecast errors obtained from such subsamples are systematically smaller (Fig. 16.2, right panel). Such an analy sis means that we consider our predictions only when we expect them to be good, where, however, the model tells us whether they will be good before the actual prediction error is computed. So the Markov chain yields also a prediction of the statedependent expected error, which would be a constant for the ARmodel.