120 A.A. Carsteanu and J.J. Castro;120 A.A. Carsteanu and J.J. Castrowhich, although not yet derived from prime principles, has sample phenom enological basis and experimental verification (see e.g. 4), is the socalled structure function  (p) v (t)p  v (t  t)  v (t)pt  t(p). To transpose this relationship from temporal to spatial scaling, Taylors frozen field hypothesis 9, stating that the intrinsic temporal partial derivative of velocity is negligible with respect to the inertial derivative, is currently widely used. While undoubtedly verified in highspeed windtunnel experiments, the applicability of the hypothesis in atmospheric conditions is questionable 3,6. However, in the present work, we shall limit ourselves to considering temporal scaling issues.;In the context of the largedeviations property of multifractal fields, the wellknown (see e.g. 1, 5, 8) asymptotic behavior of probability distribution functions with scale, in the smallscale, largeintensity limit, was recast in 2 as lim g () c()P (v (t) v0);Since probabilities are understood here in the temporal sense, rather thanacross the ensemble (let us notice that in the general case, multifractal fields are trivially nonergodic), at least stationarity should be achieved, in a sense that would allow us to parameterize probability distributions of future events from past events. However, no such stationarity is present in general in mul tifractal fields. Moreover, due to the divergence of moments of v (t), there exists a whole domain of orders of singularity where the codimension function c () is a linear function of . This domain corresponds precisely to the highest values of orders of singularity up to max. This is to say that the worstcase scenario, in the sense of the lowest return period corresponding to a given extreme event, is reached over this domain, due to the fact that the highest orders of singularity dominate the field at small scales. This same property implies that if a given sample does not capture the linear interval of c (), then the estimated value of max will not result in the true highest value of the exponent, but rather in a sampledependent value, which is where nonsta tionarity of the multifractal field is manifest in the sense of extreme values. Therefore, we propose to define (and statistically test) a stationarity in the scaling characteristics of the field, in such a way that the stationarity of the field generator can be assessed, and with it, the stationarity of the probabilities of extreme events.;Breakdown coefficients have been defined (7) for scalar fields (such ase.g. energy E), as Bi,j()  E (ti) E (tj), where the indexing i, j occurs along the support. For scaleinvariant fields, the statistics of B depend