In Institute of Hydromechanics NASU, a mechanism has been proposed for controlling the blades position during their movement on a circular trajectory. To research features of operation of a windrotor with such mechanism and com pare the results with performance of geometrically similar windrotors with rigidly fixed blades, an experimental setup and several windrotor models with vertical axis have been created.;The windrotors models No. 1 and 2 had different diameter of a circle, onwhich the axis of blades were placed on the rotors crossarms. The number of blades on each model changed during researches from 2 to 4, the blade profile has been chosen axially symmetric of the type NACA0015.;If blades were fastened on the windrotor crossarms rigidly (the classicalscheme of Darrieu rotor), than the angle of the profile chord of blade to the tangent to rotation circle was equal to 4. The mechanism of blades control provided angular oscillations of blades relative to the blade axis and during one revolution the angle of blade installation changed from 14 to 25 grades.;For recording the investigated parameters of rotation of the windrotormodel, an automated measuring system of data gathering and processing was used that is a digital storing oscillograph on the basis of the 12digit 32channel analogdigital converter L264 of the firms LCard, assembled in the form of an enhancement board of an IBMcompatible computer. The measuring system consisted of three measuring channels.;During experiment the flow velocity Vav in front of the rotor, the revolutionvelocity n of the rotor, and the torque M on the windrotor model shaft were recorded. The magnitude of torque M increased until the model stopped.;At constant flow velocity, with increase of the loading torque M on themodel shaft, all rotors have a reduction of rotational velocity n of the rotor, but the level of this reduction depends on the rotor design. Rotational velo city decreases faster in rotors with smaller number of blades. Rotors with the mechanism of blade control showed slower speed than rotors with rigidly fixed blades. The reduction of the radius R of the circle on which the windrotor blades axes move leads to more essential reduction of rotational velocity n of the rotor, and consecutively to an increase in the loading torque M at shaft.