The flow in this region is nonseparated. Close to maximum lift the Dynamic Stall Vortex starts to develop and the different measured curves deviate from each other. This trend continues and is exceeded during the downstroke phase. The experimental curves show a wide area of distribution until all curves are merging again into a single line at the end of the downstroke. The numerical curve does fit very close to the experimental results during upstroke and the first phase of downstroke. The spreading of the experi mental data is caused by turbulence activities at flow separation. This can not be calculated with the present numerical code using turbulence and tran sition modelling. Nevertheless the correspondence between calculation and measurement in Fig. 36.3 also for drag (upper right Fig. 36.3) and pitching mo ment (lower Fig. 36.3) is quite satisfactory. All calculated details like surface pressures and skin friction as well as field data (vorticity, density, pressure, etc., not displayed) can be studied and interpreted. Some discussions are in cluded in 6.;The flow phenomenon Dynamic Stall has been described in some detail and the advantages (high lift) as well as the disadvantage (excursions of drag and pitching moment) have been addressed. Recent experimental data and comparisons with numerical results have been discussed. A good comparison between the 2Dcalculations and experimental data has been shown. From this knowledge base the important step to control Dynamic Stall in a favourable way is straightforward. Dynamic flow control devices by droop the leading edge of the blade led to considerable improvements. However dynamic control needs actuators strong enough to do the job. The implementation into rotor blades is a formidable task. Therefore passive controlling devices have been considered at DLR and Leading Edge Vortex Generators have been studied. It was found that this type of devices has considerable potential to improve the Dynamic Stall characteristics. Beside of the shape of the leading edge vortex generators their positioning at the blade leading edge is of crucial importance. Due to the fact that the generators may be implemented even on existing blades and that later maintenance problems do not occur, it should be of considerable interest to install the devices also on wind turbine blades to improve its Dynamic Stall characteristics.