A spectrum SLF(n) for the low frequency fluctuations has been estimated, and a new spectrum SWS(n) (shown in Fig. 25.2) is defined as the sum of the Kaimal spectrum and the lowfrequency spectrum, i.e.;A spectrum SLF(n) for the low frequency fluctuations has been estimated, and a new spectrum SWS(n) (shown in Fig. 25.2) is defined as the sum of the Kaimal spectrum and the lowfrequency spectrum, i.e.n  SWS(n)  n  SKai(n)  n  SLF(n). (25.3);The low frequency spectrum is estimated based on all measurements from 5 m s1 to above. The result of this estimate is given in (25.4).;The low frequency spectrum is estimated based on all measurements from 5 m s1 to above. The result of this estimate is given in (25.4).n  SLF(n)  u2;The coherence analysis presented here is based on all data logged form July 2003 to September 2005. It is necessary to base the coherence analysis on more data than the PSD analysis, because the coherence depends strongly on the wind direction, and therefore only small wind direction sectors can be used.;drc V0 f, (25.5)where arc is the decay factor. Schlez and Infield 5 suggest a decay factor, which depends on the inflow angle rc shown in Fig. 25.3. The figure shows that rc  0 corresponds to points separated in the longitudinal direction, whereas rc  90 deg corresponds to points separated in the lateral direction. With any other inflow angles rc, the decay factor can be expressed according to;where arc is the decay factor. Schlez and Infield 5 suggest a decay factor, which depends on the inflow angle rc shown in Fig. 25.3. The figure shows that rc  0 corresponds to points separated in the longitudinal direction, whereas rc  90 deg corresponds to points separated in the lateral direction. With any other inflow angles rc, the decay factor can be expressed according toarc ;(along cos rc)2  (alat sin rc)2, (25.6)where along and alat are the decay factors for separations in the longitudinal and the lateral directions, respectively. Using our definition of coherence decay factors in (25.5) and (25.6), the recommendation of Schlez and Infield can be rewritten as to use the decay factors;where along and alat are the decay factors for separations in the longitudinal and the lateral directions, respectively. Using our definition of coherence decay factors in (25.5) and (25.6), the recommendation of Schlez and Infield can be rewritten as to use the decay factorsalong  (15  5)  