64 Stefan Emeis and Matthias Turkare matched. For the logarithmic profiles a roughness length of 0.0001 m has been assumed. For neutral stratification no fit of the logarithmic profile to the measured data was possible because this profile is fixed through the inevitable choice L   for the MoninObukhov length.;The fits are satisfying over the whole height range only for stable stratification. The logarithmic profile from (11.1) is closer to the measurements than the power law profile from (11.2). For neutral conditions and unstable conditions below 50 m the fits are not so well. The measured profile for neu tral conditions below 81 m is more slanted to the right than the truly neutral logarithmic profile indicating that we are already in the upper part of the surface layer. Above 81 m the measured wind speeds under neutral and sta ble conditions increase slower with height. Obviously, we reach here already the Ekman layer. Under unstable stratification the surface layer is higher and thus no drop in the wind speed increase with height can be observed below 102.5 m.;Within the height range of their validity (i.e. the surface layer of the at mospheric boundary layer) a power law wind profile can only approximate a logarithmic wind profile over a wider height range in case of stable ther mal stratification for certain surface roughnesses (see (11.3)). For neutral and unstable stratification this approximation is possible only for very smooth surfaces.;There is an indication that for neutral and stable thermal stratification ofthe air offshore wind profiles in heights above about 80 m above the sea are already above the surface layer within which (11.1) is valid. Nevertheless a description of offshore profiles by (11.1) and (11.2) seem to be possible at least under stable conditions. But it remains open whether the MoninObukhov length L used here to fit the logarithmic profile in 51 to 61 m height to the measured profile resembles to L in the true surface layer in the first ten or twenty meters above the sea surface.;1. Stull RB (1988) An Introduction to Boundary Layer Meteorology. Kluwer,;2. Sedefian L (1980) On the vertical extrapolation of mean wind power density.