 LPC(U(t))    L(t) , (27.6)which implies that the left hand side of the equation tends to zero in the limit of large T.;In reality, a constant relaxation is not observed, see e.g., 3. In order to;In reality, a constant relaxation is not observed, see e.g., 3. In order toimplement a frequencydependent response to wind fluctuations, we made the following linear response ansatz 1;Here, r0 describes relaxation at constant wind speed with U(t)  0, com pare Fig. 27.1a. The dynamic part r1(t) of the relaxation function takes into account the delayed response to wind speed fluctuations U(t). The function g(t), which simulates the response properties of the turbine, principally may include the control strategies of the turbine at various mean (10min) wind speeds U thus one will generally set g(t)  g U(t), see also 3. In view of the convolution integral in (27.8), one has factorization in frequency space with;Here, r0 describes relaxation at constant wind speed with U(t)  0, com pare Fig. 27.1a. The dynamic part r1(t) of the relaxation function takes into account the delayed response to wind speed fluctuations U(t). The function g(t), which simulates the response properties of the turbine, principally may include the control strategies of the turbine at various mean (10min) wind speeds U thus one will generally set g(t)  g U(t), see also 3. In view of the convolution integral in (27.8), one has factorization in frequency space withr(f)  g(f) 2I U(f) I ;If the response function g(t) is known together with the power curve, then the average power output can be predicted within this model after an elementary numerical integration of system (27.4) with a given wind field as input. For mally, the dynamic effect can be defined as a correction term, Ddyn, to the usual estimate by means of the power curve; L(t)  LPC(U(t))  (1  Ddyn). (27.9);For low turbulence intensities the dynamic correction factor Ddyn can be ob tained analytically within our model 1. It has the same structure as the dynamic correction introduced in an ad hoc way in 3. The comparison with their results 3 allowed us, to deduce the response function g(t) in a unique way, for details see 1. The response function is shown in Fig. 27.4.;We have started to derive the response function g(t) from the measurement data 4 by solving (27.4) for r(t) and determining r(ti) from L(ti) and LPC(U(ti)). This has to be done conditioned to different wind speed bins. It turned out that the data base used so far is much too small. There is also the