Almost any known analytical solution of (12.1) is valid only in the laminar regime, i.e. for low Reynolds numbers. For higher Reynolds numbers, distur bances which are introduced for example by imperfect or rough walls tend to grow into threedimensional vortical structures. Due to stretching and tilting of the associated vortex lines an initially simple flow pattern changes into complicated turbulence, which is characterized by irregularity in space and time, increased dissipation, mixing and nonlinearity.;Often, one is not interested in all details of the timedependent threedimensional velocity and pressure field, but in the behaviour of the statistical mean or of the large scales. To reduce the level of detail of the solution any turbulent variable f is split into a filtered value f and its fluctuation f f.;The corresponding filtering of (12.1) leads to the filtered NavierStokesequations which contains the extra nonlinear term ij in comparison to (12.1).;equations which contains the extra nonlinear term ij in comparison to (12.1).ui xi; j denote the statisticalvelocity fluctuations. Then (12.2) represents the RANS equations. The sta tistical approach is associated with the highest loss of information and with a closure problem which is not satisfactorily solved. Spectral information is completely lost, since any statistical quantity is an average over all turbulent scales. The obtained flow field describes the mean flow, which is enough for many applied problems, while the turbulent information is described with the Reynolds stress tensor.;The LES technique resembles a compromise between RANS and DNS sinceit allows to predict the dynamics of the large turbulent scales while the ef fect of the fine scales are modeled with a subgridscale model. The governing equations which have to be solved in a LES are also derived applying a filter function on the NavierStokes equations (12.1) to formally remove scales with a wavelength smaller than the grid mesh. To distinguish tophat filtering from statistical averaging in (12.2) ui and p are substituted by ui and p and the subgrid scale tensor ij  u