shear key height  0.3mmshear key height  1.25mm;Fig. 58.2. (a) Static loaddisplacement curves for different Grouted Joints speci mens (b) Strain and stiffness development of Grouted Joints in fatigue testswhen reaching the ultimate load the pile is gradually pushed through the grouted connection with considerable loadbearing capacity remaining. One aspect that should be noted, is the deformation at the ultimate load. Related to the grouted length of 90 mm, a pile displacement of about 2 mm equals a deformation of over 2. In view of alternating tension and compression stresses in Grouted Joints for Tripod foundations, this might have detrimental effects on the fatigue strength as well as the deviations at the top of the tower. In this case, it might be sensible to apply the first maximum load for design purposes. Comparative calculations according to the regulations of the American Petroleum Institute 1 and Det Norske Veritas 2 show that all of the tests are conservative compared to the American Petroleum Institute, but do not reach the characteristic values given by Det Norske Veritas. Fatigue tests have supported that the load redistributes when reaching the first maximum or a comparable strain as displayed in Fig. 58.2b. At this point the strain increases from about 0.5 to 1.2 during a few load cycles. The following gradual increase corresponds to the second part of the static curve in Fig 58.2a. Regarding the stiffness development of Grouted Joints in fatigue tests the typical decrease in stiffness can be observed up to the first maximum load. At this point the stiffness recovers and nearly reaches its initial value, before gradually decreasing again.;In this paper the performance of UHPC in Grouted Joints subjected to static and fatigue loading is discussed. It is described (Fig 58.1), that the fatigue strength of UHPC in highcycle fatigue seems to be lower compared to normal strength concrete. Regarding UHPC in Grouted Joints nearly bilinear load deflection curves for specimens with shear keys in uniaxial compression are shown, which represent two different loadbearing mechanisms and a very ductile failure. The redistribution of the load at the first maximum described for static tests can clearly be recognized in fatigue tests as well. Furthermore