Reliably solving (12.1) without any additional turbulence andor transition model in a DNS requires accurate numerical methods, which do not inhibit significant artificial viscosity. Spectral methods, which provide very accurate spatial discretization have been used successfully in the past mainly for sim ple geometries. Besides spectral methods, finite difference methods based on second or fourthorder accurate central difference schemes are widely used for DNS of turbulent flows. They are in general easily applicable in complex computational domains. Further, as pointed out by Choi et al. 1 it is pos sible to obtain spectral accuracy if the first and second order moments of the velocity fluctuations are considered for the same number of grid points.; j  in (12.2) is a symmetric tensor,which, for statistically threedimensional flows, contains six different elements. In most applied flow problems u; j  is approximated using one or two equation turbulence models. One popular two equation turbulence model is the socalled (k, )model by Wilcox 9 ( does not correspond to the vorticity). This model which allows to predict seperated flows better than the wellknown (k, )model reads;tion turbulence models. One popular two equation turbulence model is the socalled (k, )model by Wilcox 9 ( does not correspond to the vorticity). This model which allows to predict seperated flows better than the wellknown (k, )model readsu;ck (12.3)with the unknown properties k and . Closure is obtained solving the follow ing transport equation for these two unknowns and using a set of empirical constants (c, k, c1, c2, ).;with the unknown properties k and . Closure is obtained solving the follow ing transport equation for these two unknowns and using a set of empirical constants (c, k, c1, c2, ).ui k;In Fig. 12.1 the mean axial velocity component and the mean pressure com puted by Frahnert and Dallmann 2 in a RANS calculation of the fully developed turbulent channel flow with the (k, )model are compared to the DNS results of Kim et al. 4 for a Reynolds number Re  uH  360 (u denotes the friction velocity and H the channel height). While the profiles of the mean axial velocity component u in Fig. 12.1 compare very well, the mean pressure distributions in Fig. 12.1b reveal strong discrepancies. Consi dering the comparison of the turbulence intensities in Fig. 12.2, which are the four different components of the Reynolds stress tensor, good agreement is obtained for the Reynolds stress u;In Fig. 12.1 the mean axial velocity component and the mean pressure com puted by Frahnert and Dallmann 2 in a RANS calculation of the fully developed turbulent channel flow with the (k, )model are compared to the DNS results of Kim et al. 4 for a Reynolds number Re  uH  360 (u denotes the friction velocity and H the channel height). While the profiles of the mean axial velocity component u in Fig. 12.1 compare very well, the mean pressure distributions in Fig. 12.1b reveal strong discrepancies. Consi dering the comparison of the turbulence intensities in Fig. 12.2, which are the four different components of the Reynolds stress tensor, good agreement is obtained for the Reynolds stress uv