The probabilities of a gust to come can be converted into a gust prediction by introducing a threshold pc For pgust(t)  pc we give a warning, for pgust(t)  pc we do not. Evidently, the larger pc, the less frequently a warning will be given. In order to access the performance of this warning scheme, we employ the method of the ROC statistics 7 We plot the rate of false alarms versus the hit rate. If gust warnings were generated randomly without any correlation to the real future, then the rate of false alarms would be identical to the hit rate, irrespective of pc and hence irrespective of how frequently we issue a warning. The systematic finding of a higher hit rate than false alarm rate indicates predictive power of the algorithm. Due to the stochastic prop erties of the wind speeds, errorfree predictions are impossible, i.e. for every nonzero hit rate also false alarms occur. The parameter underlying the curves in Fig. 16.4 showing the ROC plot is the threshold value pc, where pc  1 cor responds to the origin (no warnings at all), and pc  0 corresponds to the point (1, 1), maximal hit rate and maximal false alarm rate. The different curves in Fig. 16.4 correspond to results obtained for different gust strengths g. Interestingly, for larger values of g the predictions possess a better hit rate. Meanwhile, we were able to understand the improved predictability for larger gust strengthes in simple model processes 8, which is related to the fact that our events are defined as increments with the last observation being the reference.;The Markov chain approach can be easily extended to multichannel measurements. The conditioning state is then defined by the successive values of all available observables at a number of past time steps. If we do so with mea surements which stem from horizontally separated anemometers, then the performance of the predictions is strongly enhanced, if one anemometer is;Fig. 16.4. Left panel ROC statistics for univariate time series data. Right panel Improved performance for bivariate input data