Summary. Twenty years ago, it was proposed that atmospheric dynamics are scaling and anisotropic over a wide range of scales characterized by an elliptical dimension Ds  239, shortly thereafter we proposed the continuous cascade fractionally integrated flux (FIF) model and somewhat later, causal spacetime extensions with Dst  299. Although the FIF model is more physically satisfying and has been strikingly empirically confirmed by recent lidar measurements (finding Ds  2.550.02, Dst  3.210.05) in classical form, its structures are too localized, it displays no wavelike phenomenology.;We show how to extend the FIF model to account for more realistic wavelike structures. This is achieved by using both localized and unlocalized spacetime scale functions. We display numerical simulations which demonstrate the requisite (anisotropic, multifractal) statistical properties as well as wavelike phenomenologies.;According to a growing body of analysis and theory (e.g., 15 and references therein) the 1D horizontal sections of the atmosphere follow Kolmogorov laws   13x13 and (assuming no overall advectionwind)   12t12, where  is the energy flux. However, 1D vertical sections follow the Bolgiano Obukov law   15z35,  the buoyancy variance flux. The gen eralization to arbitrary spacetime displacements R  (r, t), r  (x, y, z), and multifractal statistics is the 239D spatial model, 299D spacetime model. The anisotropic extension of the Kolmogorov law for the velocity (v) and of the CorrsinObukov law for passive scalar density () satisfy;According to a growing body of analysis and theory (e.g., 15 and references therein) the 1D horizontal sections of the atmosphere follow Kolmogorov laws   13x13 and (assuming no overall advectionwind)   12t12, where  is the energy flux. However, 1D vertical sections follow the Bolgiano Obukov law   15z35,  the buoyancy variance flux. The gen eralization to arbitrary spacetime displacements R  (r, t), r  (x, y, z), and multifractal statistics is the 239D spatial model, 299D spacetime model. The anisotropic extension of the Kolmogorov law for the velocity (v) and of the CorrsinObukov law for passive scalar density () satisfyv (R)  13;R R13, (24.1)where  and  are the (multifractal) energy and passive scalar variance fluxes the subscripts indicate the scale at which they are averaged. The key idea of this model is that the physical scale function R replaces the usual