So far we assumed a purely deterministic response of the power. On the one side there might be dynamical noise (D(2)  0) on the other side measurement noise might be present. In the latter case it is no longer the pure state vector q that is observed but q with a superimposed uncertainty;So far we assumed a purely deterministic response of the power. On the one side there might be dynamical noise (D(2)  0) on the other side measurement noise might be present. In the latter case it is no longer the pure state vector q that is observed but q with a superimposed uncertaintyyi(t)  qi(t)  ii(t). (32.8);i (y, )  (n)i (y, , ). (32.9);This means that without measurement noise (provided the temporal resolution is good enough) the coefficients are simply given by the slope of the conditional moments as a function of . In presence of measurement noise the relation is more complicated. For an OrnsteinUhlenbeck process the modified slope d(n) and the independent term (n) can be calculated analytically. For more complex processes they have to be determined numerically.;We presented a new approach to reconstruct the real power curve inde pendent of location specific parameters such as the turbulence intensity. So far the analysis is based on a simplified (numerical) wind turbine model but which can easily be extended to more complex systems.;Uhlenbeck processes (D(2)  f(u)) or nonLangevin processes (in order to get a more realistic spectrum). Additionally (2) the effects of other noise sources can be taken into account according to the approach sketched in (32.9) and finally (3) one might use more wind turbine specific response functions   (u, u).;1. Rosen A., Sheinman Y. (1994) J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 51287302 2. Langreder W., Hohlen H., Kaiser K. (2002) Proceedings of Global Windpower;3. The symbol (...)ij indicates that first the square root of the diagonalized matrix;4. Rauh A., Peinke J. (2003) J. Wind Eng. Ind. Aerodyn. 92159183 5. Boettcher F. (2005) PhDthesis, University of Oldenburg 6. Anahua E. et al.(2004) Proceedings of EWEC conference, published on CDRom