Fig. 55.2. Near surface hardness profiles after clean blasting (left side) and after UPtreatment (right side)compressive residual stresses of 300400 N mm2. The undefined clean blast ing process also produces compressive residual stresses, however, with more scattering values. The UP also induces compressive residual stresses which are as high as for shot peening but limited to the treated zones at the weld toe. The magnitude of the compressive residual stresses in the treated zones are nonuniform and scatter, probably caused by the manual application of this treatment method. For more details see 3,4.;55.4.2 Results of the Fatigue Tests;The results show that the fatigue life of the notch details could be highly increased using shot peening and UP. The fatigue cracks of the untreated specimens start basically in the double bevel seam. Regarding the calculated, nearly similar stresses in the butt welds, a similar fatigue life as for the double bevel seam can be predicted for those. The fatigue cracks of the UPtreated specimens occur in the middle of the treated zone or at the edges of the butt welds. These results correspond well to the measured sharp burrs at the edges of the dents of the impacts. The fatigue life could be increased by a factor around four compared to the untreated specimens. Due to bending stresses in the double bevel seam caused by the flange connection the influence of surface compressive stresses on the effective stresses are even higher so that the crack initiation shift from the double bevel seam to the butt weld. The increase of the fatigue life despite sharp notches confirms the beneficial influence of the surface hardening and the compressive residual stresses. Preloaded specimens which have been loaded up to the design life according EC3 and later UP treated reach a mean fatigue life similar to immediately treated ones. The fatigue life of the shot peened specimens has also been highly increased, some specimens even fail in the base material. This confirms that the increase of the fatigue life is caused by the introduction of residual stresses. Figure 55.3 shows the SN curves for the tested notch details, based on an assumed value of the slope m of 3 for the aswelded condition and 5.6 for the treated