Fig. 16.3. The distribution of wind gusts for different days. Results shown below are obtained for the gusty day 191;Fig. 16.3. The distribution of wind gusts for different days. Results shown below are obtained for the gusty day 191against changes of this interval. The histograms of these gust strengthes show approximately an exponential distribution (Fig. 16.3). The previously discussed prediction schemes are not suitable to predict strong gusts, i.e. a coming gust does typically not cause a large positive difference between pre dicted and actual value, vtk  vt (the persistence predictor trivially predicts this difference to be 0). However, the Markov chain approach offers a proba bilistic way of forecasting One can extract, for every time instance, a prob ability of a gust to come. This is done by straightforwardly interpreting the conditional probability densities of the Markov chain or evident variants of these. In order to estimate the probability of a gust to happen during the following 2 s, one selects all data segments at past times l  t which fulfil m1;against changes of this interval. The histograms of these gust strengthes show approximately an exponential distribution (Fig. 16.3). The previously discussed prediction schemes are not suitable to predict strong gusts, i.e. a coming gust does typically not cause a large positive difference between pre dicted and actual value, vtk  vt (the persistence predictor trivially predicts this difference to be 0). However, the Markov chain approach offers a proba bilistic way of forecasting One can extract, for every time instance, a prob ability of a gust to come. This is done by straightforwardly interpreting the conditional probability densities of the Markov chain or evident variants of these. In order to estimate the probability of a gust to happen during the following 2 s, one selects all data segments at past times l  t which fulfil m1n0 (vln  vtn)2  2, as it was also done to estimate the cpdf of the;Markov chain discussed before. From these neighbours we extract the distri bution of the maxima of each of the 2s segments following them. The relative number of situations which fulfil x  vt g, i.e. which fulfil our gust criterion, gives the actual probability of a gust of strength g to come.;This is a probabilistic prediction scheme, and despite a large predictedprobability no gust might follow. This illustrates the difficulty of verification The prediction scheme yields a probability, the actual observation will yield a yesno result. In order to check the predicted probabilities, we apply the technique of the reliability plot We create subsamples of data for which the predicted gust probabilities are in some small interval pgust(t)  r  r, r  r. If the predicted probabilities are without any bias, then the relative number of gust events inside such a sample should be in good agreement with r (for sufficiently small r). Indeed for r smaller than 12 this property is