For a better basic comprehension of the flow regime at discrete roughnessand for improved modelling further numerical flow simulations of the airfoil with trip wire and zigzag tape have been carried out. In the simulations the obstacle is aerodynamically represented by modifying the airfoil contour and by modifying the turbulence energy equation.;The numeric results are compared with measurements for the airfoil DU97300mod with a relative thickness of 30 and a modified trailing edge thickness of 0.49. The measurements have been carried out in coopera tion with the wind turbine manufacturer DeWind at DNWs cryogenetic wind tunnel in Cologne in 2003. Reynolds numbers between 1 and 10 M and Mach numbers (Ma) between 0.1 and 0.2 were obtained by decreasing the fluid temperature down to 100K. Surface roughness was investigated using Carborundum of different grain sizes in the leading edge region as well as zigzag tape and cylindrical trip wire at different locations. In this study experimental results with 11 mm wide zigzag tape of 0.4 mm and 0.6 mm height and trip wire of 1.0 mm height are analysed. The devices are located on the suction side at 30 of the chord.;The used CFDcode FLOWer (release 116.4) has been developed by the German Aerospace Center (DLR) as a part of the research project MEGAFLOW. The code requires a block structured grid and solves the Reynolds averaged NavierStokes (RANS) equation. Krumbein 5 imple mented a prediction module for the laminarturbulent transition. The module is coupled to the boundary layer calculation allowing free transition simu lations. In the present study an eNdatabase method is used as transition criterion. The parameter N is set to N  3. According to Macks correlation this corresponds to a turbulence intensity of 0.85. The Wilcox kmodel is applied.;KGrid3D 6 developed at the University of Applied Sciences Westkuste. The number of cells for the used grid is between 46,000 and 48,000. The airfoil con tour line is segmented into 600 cells. In order to achieve a sufficient resolution of the boundary layer calculation the height of the cells at the profile surface is decreased down to 1 m. In the normal direction to the surface 6075 cells are created. The wake flow area covers 30 times the chord length using 30 cells in this direction.;The first CFDmodel uses a grid created with an obstacle as part of theairfoil contour. Figure 35.1 illustrates the grid around the modelled obstacle.