130 D. Kleinhans and R. Friedrich;Anahua et al. considered the power output of the turbine as a stochastic process 1. A standard method allows for direct estimation of the character istic drift and diffusion functions from measured data 2. By means of this method Anahua et al. could extract the real time dynamics and in the mean time are able to detect small deviations of the control system of the turbine from the optimal working state.;Generally one has to distinguish between dynamical and measurement noise measurement noise is superimposed to the data during the measurement process and has no further influence on the systems dynamics. On the other hand many complex systems on a macroscopic scale show some intrinsic, dynamical noise stemming from the microscopic degrees of freedom. Under certain conditions the time evolution of the state x of such systems can be described by Langevin equations of the type;Generally one has to distinguish between dynamical and measurement noise measurement noise is superimposed to the data during the measurement process and has no further influence on the systems dynamics. On the other hand many complex systems on a macroscopic scale show some intrinsic, dynamical noise stemming from the microscopic degrees of freedom. Under certain conditions the time evolution of the state x of such systems can be described by Langevin equations of the typex  D(1)(x) ; represents an independent, delta correlated and normal distributed stochas tic force that obeys i(t)j(t)  2ij(t  t). We apply Itos interpretation of stochastic integrals 3. The corresponding FokkerPlanck equation (FPe) characterizes the evolution of the probability density function (pdf) f with time,;1  x(t  )  x(t)n x(t)  x . (23.3);It has been shown 2 that this expression applied for n  1 and n  2 can be used for direct estimation of drift and diffusion functions, respectively, from time series data. This procedure successfully has been applied to the power output of wind turbines 1 and various problems in medical and life science. The computational requirements for this method are outstandingly low. However, the required discretization of state space and  in particular  the limiting procedure with respect to the time increment makes high demands on the time series data with regard to the sampling frequency and the amount of datapoints. From now on the estimation of an onedimensional process is discussed. The generalization to higher dimensions follows accordingly.