21 Extreme Events Under LowFrequency Wind Speed Variability 121only on the scale ratio  and not on the absolute scale t. Although break down coefficients do not assume any particular model for the analyzed field, their results may be used to characterize and evaluate parameters of scaling models, such as multiplicative cascades. It should be noted that breakdown coefficients represent the measurable values of the weights in a multiplicative cascade model, which are not identical to the generating cascade weights, ex cept in the restrictive case of a microcanonical cascading process. The fact that breakdown coefficients only depend on the weights generator in the case of a multiplicative cascade 3, allows for their use not only for scaleinvariance testing, but also for generator stationarity probing. This is to say that, while multifractal fields are, as such, typically nonstationary, we can nevertheless unveil the possible stationarity of the field generator, and make use of it for prediction purposes.;The data used for this study comprise wind velocities measured at a defor ested site in the state of Rondonia, Brazil (10o45S, 62o22W) during January and February 1999. The land is dominated by short grasses, about 25 cm tall isolated indigenous trees are scattered throughout the landscape. The measurements were obtained as part of the NASA TRMMLBA (Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission  Large scale BiosphereAtmosphere) project in the Amazonia. To measure the three components of the wind speed, a sonic anemometer (Solent A1002R, Gill Instruments, Lymington, UK) was deployed on a tower at 6 m above the surface. The sonic anemometer recorded wind speed at a frequency of 10 Hz. These fastresponse data were obtained via data acquisition and electronic signal condition systems (model SCXI 2400, National Instruments, Austin, TX) which were interfaced with a computer.;The breakdown coefficient analysis has been performed on daily data, inorder to distinguish whether the energy cascading process can be regarded as similar between day and night. While the absolute values of velocities certainly look very different, the breakdown coefficient distributions of energy dissipa tion (Fig. 21.1) are very similar, and a KolmogorovSmirnov test indicates that the hypothesis of the two empirical distributions having the same underlying probability distribution function can be accepted at high significance levels (e.g. 20).;We conclude therefore that the multifractal cascade generator of energydissipation in the atmosphere can be regarded as stationary (which implies stationarity of the fluctuations field up to a multiplicative intensity modula tion), in this case between day and night, with implications on the mechanism underlying Taylors hypothesis that are being discussed elsewhere 3. The same method of breakdown coefficient analysis can be used to determine the stationarity of atmospheric turbulent energy cascade generators at larger tem poral scales, thereby drawing conclusions on the interplay of climatic indexes, possible climate change, and others.