The extended Ainslie wake model assumes a radially symmetric wind speedfield around the wake center line. The single wake is modeled with 2D RANS with eddy viscosity closure. An internal turbulence intensity model, imple mented by Wessel 7, is used for internal wakes calculation.;Jensen model, defines a wake expanding linearly downwind based on massconservation. The wake is defined by the expansion angle which is empirically defined by calibration with measured data. In FLaP this model has been implemented making use of two different wake angles that are used for single and multiple wakes, respectively.;Extensions to FLaP have been made in order to enable online modeling. Time series of operational parameters are fed to the model performing different checks and corrections to the data as explained later.;Power curve data are corrected for actual air density using the recommendation of the IEC standard 4. For this purpose data of temperature and pressure have to be given as input for each time series.;FLaP searches the best ambient wind speed measurement available fora particular wind direction giving priority to metmast measurements. The nacelle anemometer, of the active free wind turbine, is used in case of no availability of a free metmast for the actual wind direction. This is made assuming that a proper calibration of the nacelle wind speed is available.;During normal operation of a wind farm there are occasions at which oneor more turbines may not operate. This has to be taken into account by the wind farm model since the wake structure inside the wind farm changes. FLaP handles this by simulating with a wind farm layout that only contains the wind turbines that are actually operating at the time for which the simulation is performed.;Time series of 10 min averages of measured data were collected at a wind farm located near the North Sea coast of Germany. The wind farm is compounded by thirty four stall regulated turbines with a nominal power of 600 kW in a distribution shown in Fig. 29.1.;Data were available from metmast and SCADA system extending overalmost one year. The first system delivered data of wind speed at hub height, wind direction, and air temperature and pressure. The second collected data of power production, nacelle wind speed and status for each turbine.