The investigation was focused on assessing the magnitude of the thermal antiicing power, varying the size and type (1, 2 or 3 blades) of the wind turbine. In the latter case, the number of blades was changed keeping the rotor diameter and solidity constant. Under such an assumption, the velocity triangles change only because so does the Prandtl tip loss factor that explicitly depends on the number of blades. The rotors used were generated by means of a BEM code, which showed that for all the study cases considered, the angle of attack ranged between 2 and 12 from the middle to the tip. The environmental data reported in Table 57.1 were used to compute the antiicing heat flux requirement for the chosen rotors. A temperature of 2C was set on the blades outer surface to create a running wet condition over the external heated surface.;Four 3bladed turbines with different rated power output were selected (see Table 57.2). The heated spanwise length along the blade radius L, and the width H of the heated zone are shown in Table 57.2.;Trials on ice accretion suggested keeping the same width of the heatedzone for all wind turbines. In fact as the turbines size decreases, the chord length decreases as well, while the water collection increases. L corresponds to the profiled length of the blade for all cases. The antiicing heat flux qt, averaged on the heated blades area, is reported in Fig. 57.1a. A larger heat flux has to be supplied to the bigger rotors since the heated area lies close to the leading edge where the heat exchange reaches a peak. Such a behaviour is emphasized for blades working at high AoA since higher convective heat exchange coefficient and water collection occur onto the blades surface. The overall thermal power Qt  qt  Nblades  Aheated (Fig. 57.1b) increases with the turbine size as a consequence of the increase of the area to be heated.;Table 57.1. Site variables used for the simulations;Table 57.2. Turbine data used for a comparison of the antiicing thermal power with respect to machine size