26 Network Perspective of WindPower Production 151extension to include link removals and link capacities, the main conclusions from before are confirmed. These are important findings for critical infrastruc tures like communication networks and power grids.;The critical infrastructure network model of Sect. 26.2 can be extended in many directions. The picture we have in mind for the first generalization is that of a grid consisting of only volatile windpowered sources. A simple, but adequate model extension is to replace the path strengths sif in (26.1) by random (source) node strengths si, which are independently and identically drawn from for example a lognormal distribution;The critical infrastructure network model of Sect. 26.2 can be extended in many directions. The picture we have in mind for the first generalization is that of a grid consisting of only volatile windpowered sources. A simple, but adequate model extension is to replace the path strengths sif in (26.1) by random (source) node strengths si, which are independently and identically drawn from for example a lognormal distributionp(s)  1 ;(26.7)with fluctuation strength . Due to the conserved mean s  1, the average load Ln of a node is independent of the fluctuation strength consult again (26.1). A capacity layout Cn  (1  )Ln based on these averaged loads is not able to prevent the occasional overloading of nodes due to the source fluctuations. As a function of the fluctuation strength and for various tolerance parameters, Fig. 26.3a illustrates the relative size of the giant component resulting from a fluctuationdriven cascading overload failure within an initial;Fig. 26.3. The relative size of the giant network component as a function of (a) the fluctuation strength  of (26.7) and (b) the source strength swind of (26.8). All curves are based on the hop metric. From bottom to top the solid curves cor respond to tolerance parameters   0.1 (a), 0.0 (b), 0.2, 0.5, 1.0 and the dotted one to the (N  1) analysis (26.2). For (a) all curves have been averaged over 50 independent source realizations. One Poisson network realization with degree dis tribution pk  (kk!)e has been employed parameters are N  100 (a), 200 (b) and   k  5 (a), 7 (b)