Alin A. Carsteanu and Jorge J. Castro;Summary. Lowfrequency wind speed variability represents an important challenge to statistical estimation for atmospheric turbulence and its impact on wind energy generation, given that it does not allow for the usual stationarity assumption in time series analysis. This work presents a framework for the parameterization of the cascade representation of turbulent processes, where stationarity of the cascade generator is assessed from the breakdown coefficients of time series.;The effect of lowfrequency (or climaticscale) variability in wind velocities amounts to nonstationarity in the time series at scales comparable to the series length. When this is the case, the probabilities of future events cannot be inferred statistically from the past. In particular, the estimated probabilities of extreme events, which are by definition scarce and therefore difficult to estimate from statistics in the absence of phenomenologically based models even under stationary conditions, are the most sensitive to nonstationarities.;On the other hand, empirical observations have recently triggered analarm concerning more frequent atmospheric extreme events, associated with climaticscale variations (in lay terms, climate change), be they of human or natural origin. This raises the problem of being able to quantify a variation in the parameters of the underlying probability distribution functions of those extreme events, without using directly the statistics of extreme events, which are unable to offer reasonable confidence levels due to their scarcity. We pro pose here a scaling stationarity criterion, based on the multifractal nature of energy cascading in the terrestrial atmosphere.;Atmospheric extreme events are typically associated with the occurrenceof extreme velocity departures of turbulent fluctuations over contiguous space time domains, a phenomenon called coherence. These coherent structures are clustering effects typical of the multifractal energy cascade which gov erns turbulent velocity scaling. The scaling law of velocity fluctuations,