On the hypersurface computed by the RSM method, classical optimization algorithms are applied to reach the global optimum. The main deterministic method used in Optimus is the Sequential Quadratic Programming approach. It consists in formulating the continuous optimization problem in term of Lagrangian and in solving the KarushKuhnTucker conditions at each itera tion 4. In case of several local optima, a stochastic method is preferable. The simulated annealing is a very simple one which consists in a random research where a less fitness of the parameters is not always rejected, but with a cer tain probability. On the other hand, in case of highly irregular RSM, Genetic Algorithms are very efficient to reach the global optimum but imply a higher number of cost function evaluations. The optimization approach has to be chosen considering RSM shape and, in a general case, the last evolutionary method is always convenient.;Considering a reference test case (12 of incidence, Re  105, NACA0012 profile), the comparison of the lift and drag coefficients provided by Prostar with previous experimental and numerical values 5 underlines the efficiency of the present method. With t  102 s as timestep, the whole computa tion lasts approximately 40 min on a XEON 2.4 GHz monoprocessorRAM 3 GB and the evaluation of the complete efficiency graphe lasts 7 h. The com parison between NACA0012 power graphe computed by the present method and experimental results 6 shows a real agreement for the same solidity  number of blades blade chord;Considering a reference test case (12 of incidence, Re  105, NACA0012 profile), the comparison of the lift and drag coefficients provided by Prostar with previous experimental and numerical values 5 underlines the efficiency of the present method. With t  102 s as timestep, the whole computa tion lasts approximately 40 min on a XEON 2.4 GHz monoprocessorRAM 3 GB and the evaluation of the complete efficiency graphe lasts 7 h. The com parison between NACA0012 power graphe computed by the present method and experimental results 6 shows a real agreement for the same solidity  number of blades blade chordrotor radius;value (0.2), considering the static approximation.;The optimization presented is based on the two parameter shape design space. The evaluated profiles associated to each experiment are illustrated on Fig. 39.1. The objective of the present optimization process is to maximize the nominal power production and the range efficiency under an inequality constraint on blade weight. An important fact is that the RSM related to nominal production presents a local optimum. As a consequence the best way to solve is the Genetic Algorithms approach, which converge in nine iterations.