J. Rauch, T. Kramer, B. Heinzelmann, J. Twele and P.U. Thamsen;Summary. Blade element and momentum methods (BEM) are the traditional design approach to calculate drag and lift forces of wind turbine (WT) rotor blades. The major disadvantage of these theories is that the airflow is reduced to axial and circumferential flow components 1. Disregarding radial flow components leads to underestimation of lift and thrust 2. Therefore correction models for rotational effects are often used. In some situations these models do not describe the strong in crease of lift and drag at the hub 3 with sufficient accuracy, so further investigation is necessary.;A 3D numerical simulation is accomplished to map and analyze the flow field ofthe WT with a focus on the hub area and regarding radial flow components. The knowledge extracted from visualizations of rotational effects on the flow field along the blade can be used to develop a tool for the design optimization of WT rotor blades. In this study the simulation grid is generated with Ansys ICEM 5.1 and the numerical solution is achieved in a blockstructured grid consisting of 3  106;the WT with a focus on the hub area and regarding radial flow components. The knowledge extracted from visualizations of rotational effects on the flow field along the blade can be used to develop a tool for the design optimization of WT rotor blades. In this study the simulation grid is generated with Ansys ICEM 5.1 and the numerical solution is achieved in a blockstructured grid consisting of 3  106hexahedron using the commercial computational fluid dynamics (CFD) software CFX 5.7.1. The rotor blade manufacturer EUROS provided the geometric data and the CFD Service Provider CFXBerlin provided the software support.;Wind turbine Root profiles of cylindric shape lead to flow separation even at small Reynolds numbers. At this innermost rotor section power production is comparably low but not negligible 4. Due to massive flow separation radial effects occur and influence the airflow at larger radii.;This study has a focus on the airflow in the hub area and aims to describeits influence on the power production at the example of an Euros Eu 56 blade of 28.4 m radius operating at rated wind speed of 10.8 m s1.