Numerical simulations using CFD are performed for wind turbine applica tions. The aim of the project is to get a better understanding of wake be haviour that cannot be obtained by standard industrial design codes for wind power applications. Such codes are based on the Blade Element Momentum (BEM) technique, extended with a number of empirical corrections that are not entirely based on physical flow features. The importance of accurate design models also increases as the turbines become larger. Therefore, the research is today undergoing a shift toward more fundamental approaches, aiming at understanding basic aerodynamic mechanisms.;Theoretically, the bound circulation on the blades is equal to the circulation behind the rotor, i.e. in the wake. For inviscid flows, the sum of the circulation of the tip and the root vortex should ideally be zero. However, this is not entirely correct for viscous flow. The tip and root vortex do, however, both for inviscid and viscous flows, have different sense of rotation, i.e. differ ent signs of the circulation. A steep decline of circulation toward the tip will lead to a rapid concentration of the vortex at the tip (occurring a few chord lengths behind the tip). The sign of the circulation gradient along the blade will also determine the sense of rotation of the vortex behind the blade.;The simulations are performed using the CFD program EllipSys3D developed at DTU (The Technical University of Denmark) and Ris. The so called Actuator Line Method is used, where the blade is represented by a line instead of a large number of panels. The forces on that line are introduced by using tabulated aerodynamic coefficients. In this way, computer resources are used more efficiently since the number of node points locally around the blade is decreased, and they are instead concentrated in the wake behind the blades. The actuator line method was introduced by Srensen and Shen 1 and later implemented into the EllipSys3D code by Mikkelsen 2. EllipSys3D is a general purpose 3D solver developed by Srensen 3 and Michelsen 4,5.