44 E. Bibor and C. Masson;44 E. Bibor and C. Massonwas established. Treatment of data required important cares during the dif ferent steps determination of valid sectors and filtration of the data. Nacelle anemometrys correlation Vnac  V was then calculated by synchronizing the data from the WT and the reference tower.;A numerical analysis as been performed with the objective of having a better understanding of nacelle anemometry. In order to be as realistic as possible, a turbulent flow was simulated. For that purpose, the ReynoldsAverage Navier Stokes (RANS) equations were solved. The k   turbulence model was used to close the system of equations. The rotor is represented as an actuatordisc surface 2, on which external forces are prescribed according to the blade elementtheory.;The commercial software FLUENT was chosen to perform this numerical analysis. The rotor can be modelled by a pressure jump calculated from the forces found previously. Also, a twodimensional axisymmetric flow was studied in order to benefit from the symmetrical geometry of the nacelle. The size of the calculation domain was optimized so that the results were not in fluenced by the boundary conditions, but also that the computing time was optimum.;As explained in Sect. 8.3, a nacelle anemometry correlation Vnac  V was experimentally obtained V  0.953  0.791 Vnac. The latter was compared with the correlation provided by the manufacturer V  0.536  0.723 Vnac.;For Vnac  20 ms, differences up to 1.59 ms were measured. In order to;For Vnac  20 ms, differences up to 1.59 ms were measured. In order todetermine the validity of those results, power curves were constructed using the two correlations. The use of the manufacturers correlation leads to un realistic results, with power coefficients (CP) higher than the theoretical limit of 0.475 for this WT. These results confirm the inappropriateness in using a common correlation for all WTs of the same type, with no consideration of the type of terrain.;8.5.2 Influence on the Wind Turbine Control;The errors made in the estimation of V have important consequences on the performances of the WT. Indeed, the active control WT continuously modifies his rotational speed in order to operate at the optimum tip speed ratio opti  7.2. An error in V will automatically lead to an error in  calculated by the controller. Thus, the WT will always operate at CPs lower than CP,max.