290 M. Seidel and J. Gowein;290 M. Seidel and J. Goweinaccount. Furthermore, finding equivalent hydrodynamic coefficients to take account of many members proves to be difficult in many cases.; The use of foundation models in two different programs, which need to be harmonized, e.g. in terms of wave loads, creates an additional interface with more possibilities for errors in the process.; The general approach to achieve this has been based on the existing mod elling in Flex 5 which uses generalized degrees of freedom to model the substructure. Six generalized degrees of freedom are used.; Although the methodology is still an approximation, good results can be achieved for many structures. Good knowledge about the methodology and its limitations are however required for a safe and efficient design.;So far, most of the existing Offshore turbines have been installed with Monopile or gravity base substructures. Due to the size of the 5M and the associated loading, Monopiles are getting quite large and thus other concepts may become more interesting, especially for water depths in excess of 10 m.;Extensive work has been done for the DOWNVInD project with two turbines for the demonstration phase which will be installed in 45 m water depth in 2006. Initially, Tripod foundations which had a weight of over 1,000 t were foreseen for this project. This selection has been revisited as REpower has worked closely with OWEC Tower  a Norwegian company with a background in offshore oil and gas which is now specializing in offshore wind turbines  and it was found that the OWEC Jacket Quattropod (OJQ) offers a much better chance for economic optimization due to lower weight of the substruc ture. The final design of this structure is currently ongoing and fabrication is expected to commence end of 2005.;Other concepts under evaluation include concrete substructures which arean interesting alternative due to the low material cost. Different concepts are offered on the market, primarily from large building contractors which aim at gaining market shares in this evolving market.;Installation concepts are of course closely related to the structural concepts. Installations so far have been executed in a very similar way. Basically the