 2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reservedmammals it is 0.20.5 extinctions per million species per year16. Today, the rate of extinction of species is estimated to be 100 to 1,000 times more than what could be considered natural. As with climate change, human activities are the main cause of the acceleration. Changes in land use exert the most significant effect. These changes include the conversion of natu ral ecosystems into agriculture or into urban areas changes in frequency, duration or mag nitude of wildfires and similar disturbances and the introduction of new species into land and freshwater environments17. The speed of climate change will become a more important driver of change in biodiversity this century, leading to an accelerating rate of species loss18. Up to 30 of all mammal, bird and amphib ian species will be threatened with extinction this century19.;Biodiversity loss occurs at the local toregional level, but it can have pervasive effects on how the Earth system functions, and it inter acts with several other planetary boundaries. For example, loss of biodiversity can increase the vulnerability of terrestrial and aquatic eco systems to changes in climate and ocean acidity, thus reducing the safe boundary levels of these processes. There is growing understanding of the importance of functional biodiversity in preventing ecosystems from tipping into unde sired states when they are disturbed20. This means that apparent redundancy is required to maintain an ecosystems resilience. Ecosystems that depend on a few or single species for criti cal functions are vulnerable to disturbances, such as disease, and at a greater risk of tipping into undesired states8,21.;From an Earthsystem perspective, setting a boundary for biodiversity is difficult. Although it is now accepted that a rich mix of species underpins the resilience of ecosys tems20,21, little is known quantitatively about how much and what kinds of biodiversity can be lost before this resilience is eroded22. This is particularly true at the scale of Earth as a whole, or for major subsystems such as the Borneo rainforests or the Amazon Basin. Ideally, a planetary boundary should capture the role of biodiversity in regulating the resil ience of systems on Earth. Because science cannot yet provide such information at an aggregate level, we propose extinction rate as an alternative (but weaker) indicator. As a result, our suggested planetary boundary for biodiversity of ten times the background rates of extinction is only a very preliminary esti mate. More research is required to pin down this boundary with greater certainty. However, we can say with some confidence that Earth cannot sustain the current rate of loss without significant erosion of ecosystem resilience.;Nitrogen and phosphorus cycles Modern agriculture is a major cause of envi ronmental pollution, including largescale nitrogen and phosphorusinduced environ mental change23. At the planetary scale, the additional amounts of nitrogen and phospho rus activated by humans are now so large that they significantly perturb the global cycles of these two important elements24,25.;Human processes  primarily the manufacture of fertilizer for food production and the cultivation of leguminous crops  con vert around 120 million tonnes of N2 from the atmosphere per year into reactive forms  which is more than the combined effects from all Earths terrestrial processes. Much of this new reactive nitrogen ends up in the envi ronment, polluting waterways and the coastal zone, accumulating in land systems and add ing a number of gases to the atmosphere. It slowly erodes the resilience of important Earth subsystems. Nitrous oxide, for exam ple, is one of the most important nonCO2 greenhouse gases and thus directly increases radiative forcing.;Anthropogenic distortion of the nitrogen cycle and phosphorus flows has shifted the state of lake systems from clear to turbid water26. Marine ecosystems have been subject to similar shifts, for example, during periods of anoxia in the Baltic Sea caused by exces sive nutrients27. These and other nutrient generated impacts justify the formulation of a planetary boundary for nitrogen and phosphorus flows, which we propose should be kept together as one boundary given their close interactions with other Earthsystem processes.;Setting a planetary boundary for humanmodification of the nitrogen cycle is not straightforward. We have defined the bound ary by considering the human fixation of N2 from the atmosphere as a giant valve that con trols a massive flow of new reactive nitrogen into Earth. As a first guess, we suggest that this valve should contain the flow of new reactive nitrogen to 25 of its current value, or about 35 million tonnes of nitrogen per year. Given the implications of trying to reach this target, much more research and synthesis of informa tion is required to determine a more informed boundary.;Unlike nitrogen, phosphorus is a fossil mineral that accumulates as a result of geological processes. It is mined from rock and its uses range from fertilizers to toothpaste. Some 20 million tonnes of phosphorus is mined every year and around 8.5 million9.5 million tonnes of it finds its way into the oceans25,28. This is estimated to be approximately eight times the natural background rate of influx.;Records of Earth history show that largescale ocean anoxic events occur when critical thresholds of phosphorus inflow to the oceans are crossed. This potentially explains past mass extinctions of marine life. Modelling sug gests that a sustained increase of phosphorus flowing into the oceans exceeding 20 of the natural background weathering was enough to induce past ocean anoxic events29.;Our tentative modelling estimates suggestthat if there is a greater than tenfold increase in phosphorus flowing into the oceans (com pared with preindustrial levels), then anoxic ocean events become more likely within 1,000 years. Despite the large uncertainties involved, the state of current science and the present observations of abrupt phosphorusinduced regional anoxic events indicate that no more than 11 million tonnes of phosphorus per year should be allowed to flow into the oceans  ten times the natural background rate. We estimate that this boundary level will allow humanity to safely steer away from the risk of ocean anoxic events for more than 1,000 years, acknowledging that current levels already exceed critical thresholds for many estuaries and freshwater systems.;Delicate balance Although the planetary boundaries are described in terms of individual quantities and separate processes, the boundaries are tightly coupled. We do not have the luxury of concentrating our efforts on any one of them in isolation from the others. If one boundary is transgressed, then other boundaries are also under serious risk. For instance, significant landuse changes in the Amazon could influ ence water resources as far away as Tibet30. The climatechange boundary depends on staying on the safe side of the freshwater, land, aerosol, nitrogenphosphorus, ocean and stratospheric boundaries. Transgressing the nitrogenphosphorus boundary can erode the resilience of some marine ecosystems, poten tially reducing their capacity to absorb CO2 and thus affecting the climate boundary.;The boundaries we propose represent a newapproach to defining biophysical precondi tions for human development. For the first time, we are trying to quantify the safe lim its outside of which the Earth system cannot continue to function in a stable, Holocenelike state.;The approach rests on three branches of scientific enquiry. The first addresses the scale of human action in relation to the capacity of Earth to sustain it. This is a significant feature of the ecological economics research agenda31, drawing on knowledge of the essen tial role of the lifesupport properties of the