 2009 Macmillan Publishers Limited. All rights reservedevidence of thresholds. Determining a safe distance involves normative judgements of how societies choose to deal with risk and uncertainty. We have taken a conservative, riskaverse approach to quantifying our plan etary boundaries, taking into account the large uncertainties that surround the true position of many thresholds. (A detailed description of the boundaries  and the analyses behind them  is given in ref. 10.);Humanity may soon be approaching theboundaries for global freshwater use, change in land use, ocean acidification and interfer ence with the global phosphorous cycle (see Fig. 1). Our analysis suggests that three of the Earthsystem processes  climate change, rate of biodiversity loss and interference with the nitrogen cycle  have already transgressed their boundaries. For the latter two of these, the control variables are the rate of species loss and the rate at which N2 is removed from the atmosphere and converted to reactive nitrogen for human use, respectively. These are rates of change that cannot continue without signifi cantly eroding the resilience of major compo nents of Earthsystem functioning. Here we describe these three processes.;Climate change Anthropogenic climate change is now beyond dispute, and in the runup to the climate negotiations in Copenhagen this December, the international discussions on targets for climate mitigation have intensified. There is a growing convergence towards a 2 C guard rail approach, that is, containing the rise in global mean temperature to no more than 2 C above the preindustrial level.;Our proposed climate boundary is basedon two critical thresholds that separate quali tatively different climatesystem states. It has two parameters atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide and radiative forcing (the rate of energy change per unit area of the globe as measured at the top of the atmos phere). We propose that human changes to atmospheric CO2 concentrations should not exceed 350 parts per million by volume, and that radiative forcing should not exceed 1 watt per square metre above preindustrial levels. Transgressing these boundaries will increase the risk of irreversible climate change, such as the loss of major ice sheets, accelerated sea level rise and abrupt shifts in forest and agri cultural systems. Current CO2 concentration stands at 387 p.p.m.v. and the change in radia tive forcing is 1.5 W m2 (ref. 11).;posed climate boundary. First, current cli mate models may significantly underestimate the severity of longterm climate change fora given concentration of greenhouse gases12. Most models11 suggest that a doubling in atmospheric CO2 concentration will lead to a global temperature rise of about 3 C (with a probable uncertainty range of 24.5 C) once the climate has regained equilibrium. But these models do not include longterm reinforcing feedback processes that further warm the cli mate, such as decreases in the surface area of ice cover or changes in the distribution of veg etation. If these slow feedbacks are included, doubling CO2 levels gives an eventual tempera ture increase of 6 C (with a probable uncer tainty range of 48 C). This would threaten the ecological lifesupport systems that have developed in the late Quaternary environment, and would severely challenge the viability of contemporary human societies.;The second consideration is the stability ofthe large polar ice sheets. Palaeo climate data from the past 100 million years show that CO2 concentrations were a major factor in the longterm cooling of the past 50 million years. Moreover, the planet was largely icefree until CO2 concentrations fell below 450 p.p.m.v.;(100 p.p.m.v.), suggesting that there is a crit ical threshold between 350 and 550 p.p.m.v. (ref. 12). Our boundary of 350 p.p.m.v. aims to ensure the continued existence of the large polar ice sheets.;Third, we are beginning to see evidence thatsome of Earths subsystems are already mov ing outside their stable Holocene state. This includes the rapid retreat of the summer sea ice in the Arctic ocean13, the retreat of moun tain glaciers around the world11, the loss of mass from the Greenland and West Antarctic ice sheets14 and the accelerating rates of sea level rise during the past 1015 years15.;Rate of biodiversity loss Species extinction is a natural process, and would occur without human actions. How ever, biodiversity loss in the Anthropocene has accelerated massively. Species are becoming extinct at a rate that has not been seen since the last global massextinction event16.;Boundaries for processes in red have been crossed. Data sources ref. 10 and supplementary information