lthough Earth has undergone many periods of significant environmen tal change, the planets environmenthas been unusually stable for the past 10,000 years13. This period of stability  known to geologists as the Holocene  has seen human civilizations arise, develop and thrive. Such stability may now be under threat. Since the Industrial Revolution, a new era has arisen, the Anthropocene4, in which human actions have become the main driver of global envi ronmental change5. This could see human activities push the Earth system outside the stable environmental state of the Holocene, with consequences that are detrimental or even catastrophic for large parts of the world.;During the Holocene, environmentalchange occurred naturally and Earths regu latory capacity maintained the conditions that enabled human development. Regular temperatures, freshwater availability and biogeochemical flows all stayed within a rela tively narrow range. Now, largely because of a rapidly growing reliance on fossil fuels and;change occurred naturally and Earths regu latory capacity maintained the conditions that enabled human development. Regular temperatures, freshwater availability and biogeochemical flows all stayed within a rela tively narrow range. Now, largely because of a rapidly growing reliance on fossil fuels andindustrialized forms of agriculture, human activities have reached a level that could dam age the systems that keep Earth in the desirable Holocene state. The result could be irrevers ible and, in some cases, abrupt environmental change, leading to a state less conducive to human development6. Without pressure from humans, the Holocene is expected to continue for at least several thousands of years7.;Figure 1  Beyond the boundary. The inner green shading represents the proposed safe operating space for nine planetary systems. The red wedges represent an estimate of the current position for each variable. The boundaries in three systems (rate of biodiversity loss, climate change and human interference with the nitrogen cycle), have already been exceeded.; Three of nine interlinked planetary boundaries have already been oversteppedboundaries define the safe operating space for humanity with respect to the Earth system and are associated with the planets bio physical subsystems or processes. Although Earths complex systems sometimes respond smoothly to changing pressures, it seems that this will prove to be the exception rather than the rule. Many subsystems of Earth react in a nonlinear, often abrupt, way, and are par ticularly sensitive around threshold levels of certain key variables. If these thresholds are crossed, then important subsystems, such as a monsoon system, could shift into a new state, often with deleterious or potentially even disastrous consequences for humans8,9.;Most of these thresholds can be defined bya critical value for one or more control vari ables, such as carbon dioxide concentration. Not all processes or subsystems on Earth have welldefined thresholds, although human actions that undermine the resilience of such processes or subsystems  for example, land and water degradation  can increase the risk that thresholds will also be crossed in other processes, such as the climate system.;We have tried to identify the Earthsystemprocesses and associated thresholds which, if crossed, could generate unacceptable envi ronmental change. We have found nine such processes for which we believe it is neces sary to define planetary boundaries climate change rate of biodiversity loss (terrestrial and marine) interference with the nitrogen and phosphorus cycles stratospheric ozone depletion ocean acidification global fresh water use change in land use chemical pol lution and atmospheric aerosol loading (see Fig. 1 and Table).