As the offshore industry is immature relative to the onshore industry, we expect opex per MW for an offshore wind farm to decrease as the supply chain is industrialised and as learnings from early offshore wind farms transfer into the operations of new ones. Furthermore, we expect the employment of large turbines to put a downward pressure on offshore opex.;In general, opex may vary significantly between projects depending on mainly price of the service contract and the land lease. For a preliminary purpose it is often possible to benchmark estimates and ranges of main opex elements. However, as the project progresses more detailed infor mation and estimates are required and should also be available. Some opex elements may be pegged to revenue or production to form a hedge on profit margins.;In addition to the opex elements described above, tax considerations are also an important part of invest ment case analyses. The characteristics of tax modelling will vary across countries and projects. In particular it is important to consider how payable tax differs to accounting taxes, as the former one will have liquidity effects, whereas accounting taxes may contain elements that have no liquidity effect.;4.5 Projectend options As a wind farm project reaches the end of its operational life, various real options exist. These include decommis sioning, repowering or overhaul of the wind farm and will be dependent on the terms of the land lease.;If the lease is coming to an end, with no option of rene gotiating, decommissioning is more likely. However, with an option to extend the land lease, a large overhaul can extend the project life for some years. If the land lease can be renewed for a longer period, repowering may prolong the project life and represent a new profitable investment case as costs of development, infrastructure, towers, etc. have already been incurred.;The costs of repowering relate to the specific turbines that are installed, whereas the costs of overhaul depend of the magnitude of the overhaul. Decommissioning costs relate to the applied type of foundation and the number of turbines. Decommissioning costs also tend to relate to total project costs, which mean that decommissioning offshore wind farms are more expensive than onshore wind farms, in particular due to the extensive need of specialised vessels.;Finally, it is important to apply a reasonable assumption regarding the useful lives of the turbines, which are often set at 2030 years. However, as for other assets, the useful lives also depend on the wear of the assets, and for wind farms the useful lives depend directly on the energy production and the chosen level of concurring mainte nance during the operational period.