distribution of the minimum DSCR observed when using 1year wind variability, whereas the green area shows the distribution of a minimum DSCR when using 20year wind variability. The hatched areas in the left side of the figure show the simulated outcomes where the minimum DSCRwas below 1, and therefore indicate outcomes where the project may default on its debt. It is also relevant to investigate the probability of breaching debt covenants (such as a minimum DSCR of 1.3x), as this may impose additional costs orand restrictions on project owners.;As mentioned in section 4.2, the yearly production uncer tainty when based on a 1year wind variability measure is greater relative to a yearly production uncertainty based on a 20year variability measure. This is exemplified in the figure above by the hatched green area being more than 4 times larger than the hatched blue area. In other words, when project viability is assessed using a 20year wind variability, the project will default with a probability of 1, whereas it will default with a probability of 5 when using the 1year wind variability.;We have seen that wrong assessment of the production risk during the first years of operation and consequently misunderstanding the probability of default have caused that some projects in recent years have faced financial difficulties due to bad wind years. This can either be handled through lower gearing or by means of changing the conditions and covenants on the loans.;As leverage is usually greatest during the first years of operation, it becomes highly relevant to understand theshortterm production risk. Based on this understanding and thorough analyses in general, it will be possible to structure an optimal debt package that matches the risks inherent in a project.;The use of external funding can help improve the risk discipline for the project as more external parties looking at the contracts and project structure often result in more informed solutions. Also, banks and lenders often have a more specific focus on the potential downside scenarios which may prove to be helpful for assessing project viability. As nonrecourse finance is a unique discipline and approach to project risks, it often can be a good idea to use expe rienced advisers with specific knowledge of the debt industry and great experience in project financing.;Min. DSCR (1year variability) Min. DSCR (20year variability)