4.2. Production Another important input parameter is the expected power production. As sufficient wind speeds at the project site are the main drivers of wind energy production and of wind park revenues, the understanding and forecast of wind become essential. Therefore, a lot of effort must be put into assessing the wind energy resource at the given project site. This is done by performing a wind study, which over a period of typically 25 years measures the wind in for example 10minute inter vals and on the basis of these measurements describes the speed, direction and density of the wind on the project site.;A power curve is characterised by a cutin and a cutout wind speed. The cutin wind speed is the level at which the turbine starts to produce power, while the cutout wind speed is the level at which the turbine stops producing power due to the risk of damaging the turbine from excessively high wind speeds. In order to optimise production, the chosen turbine should therefore match the forecast wind speeds so that the turbine rarely stops producing power due to either too low or too high wind speeds.;To transform wind energy into power, the wind turns the rotor blades of the turbine, which yields a given power output based on the wind speed and the turbine model. This power output is described via the turbines socalled power curve. Therefore, by application of the distribution of wind speeds, it is possible to calculate the expected production from the wind park.;In order to illustrate how wind speeds transfer into expected energy production and how production uncertainty is quantified, we have provided an example in the figures below. The leftmost figure shows an expected distribution of wind speeds with a mean of 8.5 msec (lightblue line) and a power curve for a 2.3 MW turbine (darkblue line).;In our example the combination of the expected wind speed distribution and the turbine specific power curve yields an expected yearly gross production (P50) of approx. 8,000 MWh. To estimate the net production potential losses deriving from for example wake effects, electrical losses or from the fact that turbines will not be able to produce energy at all times due to for example planned maintenance must be taken into account.