4.3 Power prices and subsidies Combined with the level of production, power prices affect the profitability of a project directly, and it is therefore necessary to make sound reflections on the power price forecast.;A lot of information can be found in shortterm futures and forward markets if power contracts are traded frequently. However, in the long term, markets often become illiquid and forward prices may reflect inflation expectations rather than the expected development of the market price. Fortunately there are companies and organisations that specialise in performing fundamental analyses where forecast of supply and demand are combined into a longterm price forecast.;There are significant variations in power prices across continents and countries, which are often divided into different price areas. However, integration and intercon nection cables between price areas are increasing, which will result in smaller price differences between countries and regions.;The figure below shows historical power prices from EEX in Germany which are closely interrelated with the rest of Central Europe. The bluedotted line between 2014 and 2016 shows forward prices on EEX. From 2016 we have extended the forward curve to 2020 (lightblue dotted line) and as an alternative illustrated a price forecast published by IEA 2020 (darkblue dotted line).;Obviously, the 2 forecasts illustrated above display a large divergence in the expectations for power prices. Therefore, the profitability of a project can depend critically on the applied price forecast, for which reason sensitivity analyses on the development in power prices are an important part of assessing the robustness of an investment case. Often the investment case will be less exposed to market risk as most projects are eligible for fixed subsidies for a given period.;Subsidies may constitute a substantial part of wind farm revenues. Consequently, in the initial phase of developinga wind farm project, the prevailing subsidy terms should be investigated in order to assess the impact and importance of subsidies on the investment case. The terms for receiving subsidies, the size of the subsidy and the period in which a project is eligible for subsidies are important issues.