4.6 Financing During the maturation stage of the project, the capital need must be determined and the optimal capital structure must be defined by way of analyses. A project can be financed either by using the owners own balance sheet as collateral or through a project company, also referred to as a special purpose vehicle (SPV). It is more common that SPVs are established as many wind projects require significant investments and as the SPV structure opens for the possibility of obtaining nonrecourse debt financing. I.e. financing is obtained on the projects ability to raise debt on its own merits as the SPV has its own revenues and balance sheet.;The maturity of loans depends on the project finance structure, but often maturities of 1015 years post completion are obtainable at a borrowing rate of approx. 4.56 in the current markets, depending on the instal ment plan and the risk of the project. Instalment plans may take the form of annuity, serial or bullet loans. Also they may include an option to sculpture instalments via for example a cash sweep or a revolving credit in order to accommodate potential liquidity issues that may arise as a consequence of the variation in revenues. Such variations may be caused by the yearonyear wind vari ability and in particular by power price fluctuations if the project does not have a PPA.;When performing investment case analyses it is also important to test the robustness towards different capital structures, i.e. levels of debt and equity. Based on our experience, we see a relatively high gearing in wind projects of about 5070 debt financing, where onshore and offshore projects are typically in the upper and lower range, respectively. The difference is due to the larger risk in offshore projects, and the larger equity capital require ments which increase offshore projects need for secondary equity investors such as large institutional investors.;When considering how to finance the wind farm project it is also important to consider different types of investors. In Europe lenders to wind projects among others include governmentally owned investment funds like the European Investment Bank, Nordic Investment Bank and Green Investment Bank. Commercial banks have also provided debt capital to wind farm investments via single bank, syndicated and club bank loans. In addition, export credit agencies are also commonly engaged in financing of wind farm projects.;The possibility of nonrecourse debt in an SPV incentivises equity investors to pursue a high gearing of the project as it limits the lenders claim to the project assets in case of default. A higher gearing would decrease the require ment of equity injection and enhance equity returns at the cost of a higher risk of not meeting debt service requirements.;Lenders are interested in fixing cash flow streams and reduce the risk of their relatively lowreturn investment. Therefore the level of gearing is often limited by lenders or governments which may impose certain covenants on the debt package.;Covenants are restrictions that specify certain limitations on for example the size and the use of the loan. Therefore using project financing means that you need to deal with the banks requirements. DSCR (Debt Service Coverage Ratio), which expresses the projects ability to pay interest and instalments from its cash flows, is one of the widely applied covenants. In addition to the covenant described above, lenders often require a cash reserve account of 612 months of debt service (interest and instalments) and a maintenance reserve account equal to 6 or 12 months of OM costs. We often also see that banks limit the use of project proceeds, for example by restricting cash flows from being paid out to equity investors before some or all debt has been repaid.;In addition to covenants lenders require comprehen sive financial due diligence and stress testing of project assumptions in order for them to gain comfort in the projects viability. In relation to this, identification and understanding of project risks are essential as unidenti fied risks may potentially jeopardise the entire project.;Assessing a minimum DSCR distribution and the probability of default In the current debt markets, a projects covenant with respect to minimum required DSCR is approx.1.2x1,4x during the maturity of the loan at a P90 production level and dependent on whether it is an on or offshore project. With regard to a projects minimum DSCR, this is often considered in a static model using a 10 or 20year P90 production measure. However, as we show below, this approach has some limitations when assessing the risk of breaching covenants in the short term. In the figure below we illustrate a projects minimum DSCR under a simulated production. The blue area shows the