A closer look on production uncertainty As mentioned above, a wind study often states the uncertainties related to the estimated P50. We define these uncertainties as wind variability and model uncertainty.;Wind variability relates to the fact that yearly mean wind speeds at a given site change will differ each year due to variation in meteorological conditions at the site and the nature of wind intermittency. Yearly energy produc tion will therefore also vary each year. While the realised yearly production is likely to vary around the expected production, which will be constant, it is important to understand that production will not be constant during the operational life of the wind farm.;We therefore consider wind variability as a yearonyear variability. Such variability also applies to factors like changing average wind directions and production losses caused by for example icing on blades and availability of the turbines.;Taking into account the yearonyear variability allows us to estimate changing P measures over time, as the statistical properties of random variation allow the average of all yearonyear variability to decrease when evaluated over a longer horizon. This means that the 1year P90 will be lower than the 20year averaged P90, and we therefore consider this uncertainty as a dynamic uncertainty.;Understanding the expected production and its limitations While a wind study results in an expected energy produc tion from the wind farm, this estimate is exposed to uncertainty. This uncertainty can be significant and is therefore important to take into account when assessing the energy production of a wind farm.;The expected yearly production of a wind farm is called the P50, and this is the production level which is exceeded with a probability of 50. Analogously, the wind study tends to state P75 and P90 production which is interpreted in the same way as the P50, and which can be used to evaluate the uncertainty in the production forecast. If a project developer wants to illustrate a conservative produc tion estimate the P90 could be applied. We have added production uncertainty to the AEP estimate above. This results in a curve which on the horizontal axis illustrates the probability of exceeding the yearly energy production stated on the vertical axis. We have illustrated the P50 and the P90 by the dark green and light green dotted horizontal lines.