4.1. Project costs One of the main considerations when developing a wind farm is overall project costs and how these are split between main cost elements. In general project costs will accumulate until the turbines are commissioned, and while costs during project development and maturation are rather insignificant, the construction phase by far accounts for the largest cost accumulation in developing a wind farm. This is due to the large costs of turbine, foundation and transmission assets compared to the relatively small costs of environmental impact assessment, wind studies, financial analyses and consenting costs.;As illustrated below, there are significant variations in total project costs for onshore wind farms. Besides differencesin year of data sampling these variations may be due to several effects, including soil conditions, applied tech nology, cost of transmission assets, infrastructure and local costs. At some sites there is already a functioning infrastructure, which makes the need for e.g. additional roads smaller. Also, project costs can be affected by project profitability as turbine suppliers often increase prices on projects where they anticipate that returns are high and competition is low.;In the figure below we have provided a range for total onshore project costs (green bar) based on market reports and our own experiences with wind farm economics. The blue bars illustrate how total onshore project costs may be split between 4 main cost elements.;Project costs also vary with project complexity. As offshore projects are generally more complex than onshore projects they are also typically 23 times more expensive per installed MW. In offshore projects, the turbines tend to make out a smaller part of total project costs as all other components become somewhat more expensive.;It is the costs of foundation, grid connection and construction in general that are greater in offshore projects relative to onshore projects. We have provided a range for total offshore project costs and a split between main cost elements in the figure below.