 Woodhead Publishing Limited, 2011presented in the following are not completely converged. Nevertheless, the used dataset is considered adequate to show the overall trend of the flow field. Defining the alongwind standard deviation of the turbulent wind speed fluctuations as;4.37where V denotes the ambient wind speed at hub height. In Plate IV(a) and (b) (see between pages 286 and 287), the contours of the turbulence intensity and its azimuthally averaged radial distribution are depicted. The turbulence intensity in the wake is found to vary from approximately 10 to 25, with an average value of about 15. Based on measurements and analytical considerations, and depending on operating conditions, Frandsen (2007) and Barthelmie et al. (2007) reported comparable values for a wind farm with a rotor spacing of approximately three diameters.;The trend in the development of wind turbines is towards larger and more slender constructions, and turbines grouped in large wind farms. Further, because of limited space and problems with public acceptance, it is anticipated that wind turbines primarily will be installed in complex terrain and at offshore locations. Therefore, the development of aerodynamic models is directed partly towards development of engineering models that is capable of incorporating new phenomena and partly towards CFD models capable of dealing with complex physics, such as stall, fluidstructure interaction and wake modeling. Within rotor aerodynamics it is expected that new intelligent rotor blades equipped with sensors and various regulation and control equipment, such as trailing edge flaps, boundary layer blowing and extended use of vortex generators, will put new demands on the capability of the aerodynamic models. Thus, it is of utmost importance that future CFD tools are capable of treating boundary layer separation and laminarturbulent transition with a greater accuracy than is possible today. It is expected that a large proportion of future wind turbines will be installed in complex terrain. It is therefore important to incorporate the influence of the atmospheric boundary layer at the specific site in the aerodynamic analysis. An example of this is turbines erected in forests where the influence of the boundary layer formed by the forest greatly influences the final power production. The tendency to install wind turbines at offshore locations puts new demands on the modeling of wakes and wake interaction. This concerns both engineering models for optimization of location with respect to minimizing installation expenses and maximizing the total power yield as well as advanced CFD models for computing turbulence and interaction between neighboring wind farms.