 Woodhead Publishing Limited, 2011unsteady RANS (URANS). The advantage of RANS or URANS is that a full resolved computation can be established with some few million mesh points, which makes it possible to reach a full 3D solution even on a portable computer. The accuracy of the computations, however, is restricted by the turbulence models lack of ability of representing a full unsteady spectrum. Thus, for attached flow the accuracy is fully adequate, whereas for stalled flows it may degenerate completely. This is further rendered complicated by the laminarturbulent transition process that also has to be modeled in order to compute the onset of turbulence. An alternative to RANSURANS is large eddy simulation (LES). In LES the Navier Stokes equations are filtered spatially on the computational mesh and only the subgridscale part of the turbulence is modeled using a socalled subgridscale (SGS) model. The advantage of LES is that all the dynamics of the flow fields are captures and that an accurate solution can be obtained even under highly separated flow conditions. The computational price, however, is often prohibitive, even when solving parallelized computing algorithms on large cluster systems, because of the large number of mesh points needed to resolve practical flows at high Reynolds numbers. As compared to direct numerical simulation (DNS), where the Navier Stokes equations are solved directly without any modeling of the turbulence, LES is, however, still several orders of magnitude faster. The first full NavierStokes simulation for a complete rotor blade was carried out by Srensen and Hansen (1998) using the k   SST model of Menter (1993). These simulations were later followed by Duque et al. (1999, 2003) and Srensen et al. (2002) in connection with the American NREL experiment at NASA Ames and the accompanying NRELNWTC aerodynamics blind comparison test (Schreck, 2002). The NREL experiments have achieved significant new insight into wind turbine aerodynamics and revealed serious shortcomings in present day wind turbine aerodynamics prediction tools. In particular, it was found that performance computations using the BEM technique were extremely sensitive to the input blade section aerodynamic data. The NavierStokes computations generally exhibited good agreement with the measurements up to wind speeds of about 10 ms. At this wind speed, flow separation sets in and for higher wind speeds the boundary layer characteristics is dominated by stall and the computations underestimate the power yield. Johansen et al. (2002) applied a hybrid LESRANS technique on the NREL phase VI rotor under parked conditions. Good agreement with measurements was obtained at low angles of attack when the flow is largely attached. However, at high angles of attack the computations did not improve as compared to RANS computations. In the conclusion it was suggested that the inclusion of a laminarturbulent transition model most likely will improve the quality of the results. To this end, a recent study by Srensen (2009), using the correlationbased transition model of Menter et al. (2004), showed that a proper transition model indeed improves the results, but that the results at high wind speeds still underestimates the power.