4.6.2 Multiple turbines in a row;To study the generation of turbulence in the interior of a large wind farm, a turbine operating in a domain imposed with periodic inflow and outflow conditions was considered. The introduction of periodic boundary conditions in the flow direction is a technique that has been largely used to study the generation of turbulence in boundary layers and in channels. In the present case the turbulence is generated by the mixing effect of the rotor itself. Plate III(a)(d) (see between pages 286 and 287) shows isovorticity contours illustrating how the flow develops as a function of time. As a time indicator the turnaround time T is employed, which defines the time it takes for a flow structure to pass through the domain once. Designating the mean convective axial velocity in the wake as V0, the approximate time it takes for a flow structure to be convected through the domain is T  LzV0, where Lz is the length of the flow domain. From Plate III(a) it is seen that the startup phase is associated with the development of distinct tip vortices and an inner vortex structure, corresponding to the usual transient for a single wind turbine starting up. After one turnaround time, the wake that was developed in the initial phase goes through the rotor and creates a wake consisting of coherent tip vortices superposed a turbulent spot in the interior of the wake (Plate III(b)). This turbulent spot is subsequently convected downstream (Plate III(c)). When it passes through the rotor the second time, it starts to develop broadband turbulence superposed organized vortex structures. In the final stage, it is difficult to distinguish the various structures (Plate III(d)), although the influence of the rotor on the wake immediately downstream is still visible. The smallest length scales are determined here by the size of the computational grid, whereas the largest length scales are determined partly by the diameter of the rotor and partly by the length of the computational domain, corresponding to the distance between the turbines. After the transients have died out, the flow becomes dominated by the development of turbulence. Due to the mixing of the rotor, turbulent kinetic energy is continuously added to the flow and statistics can be performed when the production of turbulence is in balance with the dissipation. When this happens the flow is statistically stationary and usual statistical tools can be applied. In the following, the Reynolds stresses R in a cross section located one diameter upstream of the rotor are computed from the twopoint correlation tensor;4.35where   denotes ensemble averaging, vi  Vi  Vi is the ith component of the fluctuating velocity and N denotes the number of statistically independent snapshots used for the time averaging. In the present work, R is estimated with N  750. It should be mentioned, however, that the used sample rate was not sufficiently low to ensure statistically independent snapshots and so the statistics