A profound difficulty when seeking to validate models with field measurements is that the complicated and everchanging inflow conditions generally are not fully known and that field measurements generally have inherent uncertainties due to, for example, the lack of stationary data. Therefore, numerical simulations constitute a valuable supplement since the inflow conditions are easily controlled and because all relevant flow properties are described in detail. In connection with numerical wake studies actuator disk or line techniques and related methods, which combine a full set of NavierStokes equations with a blade element approach and airfoil data, are useful because the influence of the blades on the flow field is captured with a low number of grid points. This type of method, extended with a number of submodels for coping with shear and turbulent inflow as well as the aeroelastic behavior of the turbines, has been used extensively for wake studies of both isolated turbines (Srensen et al., 1998 Srensen and Shen, 2002) and rows of turbines (Troldborg et al., 2006 Mikkelsen et al., 2007).;The following section presents some actuator line simulations of the flow field in the interior of a wind farm (Srensen et al., 2007). The simulations are carried out using large eddy simulation (LES) technique in order to capture the smallscale turbulence without having to resolve all length scales. Thus the scales resolved by the grid are simulated directly by the NavierStokes equations, whereas scales below the grid scale are modeled using an eddyviscositybased mixedscale subgrid model. Two types of simulations are carried out. Initially the flow field between a row of three turbines is simulated in a case where the wind is in line with the common axis of the rotors. Thereafter, a row of infinitely many rotors is simulated by applying periodic boundary conditions at the inlet and outlet of a computational domain inside which a turbine is located. In this way, the simulations cover the initial development of the flow field in a wind farm as well as the equilibrium state reached in the interior of large wind farms. The computations are conducted using airfoil data from the Tjreborg wind turbine. The blade radius of this turbine is 30.56 m and it rotates at 22.1 RPM, corresponding to a tip speed of 70.7 ms. The blade sections consist of NACA 44xx airfoils with a chord length of 0.9 m at the tip, increasing linearly to 3.3 m at hub radius 6 m. The blades are linearly twisted 1 per 3 m.;4.6.1 Three turbines in a row;Plate II (see between pages 286 and 287) depicts isovorticity contours in a cross section along the common axis of the three rotors. The wake behind the first turbine is seen to be dominated by organized tip and root vortices, whereas the flow undergoes massive separation over the second rotor, causing the most downstream rotor to operate in a completely separated flow. It should be mentioned that the highly separated flow is partly a result of the rotors being forced to operate at the