J. N. SRENSEN, Technical University of Denmark, Denmark;Abstract This chapter presents various aspects of wind turbine aerodynamics. Wind turbine aerodynamics is the most central discipline for design and construction of wind turbine blades. Basics of the blade element momentum theory are presented along with guidelines for the construction of airfoil data. It provides a review of advanced numerical simulation (computational fluid dynamics) tools for wind turbine rotors and wakes. This includes rotor predictions as well as models for simulating wind turbine wakes and flows in wind farms. Finally, future trends concerning wind turbine aerodynamics are discussed.;Aerodynamics concerns modeling and prediction of aerodynamic forces on the blades and the solid structures of a wind turbine. The aerodynamic model is normally integrated with models for wind conditions and structural dynamics. The integrated aeroelastic model for predicting performance and structural deflections is a prerequisite for design, development and optimization of wind turbines. Aerodynamics is the oldest science in wind energy. By using simple axial momentum and energy considerations, Lanchester (1915) and Betz (1920) predicted that even an ideal wind turbine cannot exploit more than 59.3 of the wind power passing through the rotor disk. A major breakthrough was achieved by Glauert (1935), who formulated the blade element momentum (BEM) theory. This theory, which has since been extended with many engineering rules, is today the basis for all rotor design codes in use by industry. The forces acting on a wind turbine are dominated by an incoming wind that varies in time and space, hence a stochastic description of the wind field and a dynamical modeling of the blades and solid structures of the wind turbine form an intrinsic part of the aerodynamic design methodology. When the wind direction changes, misalignment with the rotational axis occurs. This causes periodic variations in the angle of attack that invalidates the assumption of axisymmetric inflow conditions. When a turbine is operating at its optimum condition, aerodynamic stall is always present on some part of the blades. In order to cope with all these different operating conditions the basic steady and axisymmetric BEM model, as it was formulated by Glauert (1935), has been extended with various empirically based modifications.