4.34where a typical value for Cd(  90) is 1.2. For angles of attack between stall and 45 the airfoil data may be determined using linear interpolation between the two sets of corrected data. Since the angle of attack is constantly changing due to fluctuations in the wind and control actions, it is necessary to include a dynamic stall model to compensate for the time delay associated with the dynamics of the boundary layer and wake of the airfoil. This effect can be simulated by a simple firstorder dynamic model, as proposed by ye (1991), or it can be considerable more advanced, taking into account also attached flow and leading edge separation, as in the model of Larsen et al. (2007), and compressibility effects, as in the model of Leishman and Beddoes (1989).;Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) has become an important supplement to the BEM technique. Although it is beyond the present day computer facilities to use CFD for the actual design process, after having obtained a design using BEM, CFD can be utilized to verify and check whether the design displays any unwanted aerodynamics features. Furthermore, CFD can be used when optimizing 2D airfoil shapes or in connection with simplified wake studies. During the past four decades a strong research activity within the aeronautical field has resulted in the development of a series of CFD tools. This research has focused on the development of efficient solution algorithms and numerical schemes for solution of the flow equations, grid generation techniques and modeling of boundary layer turbulence. These elements together form the basis of all CFD codes, of which some have long been available as standard commercial software. Today, there are two main paths to follow when conducting CFD computations. The most popular is based on solving the Reynoldsaveraged NavierStokes (RANS) equations, closing the system by introducing a suitable oneequation or twoequation turbulence model, such as the k   or the k   model. Using this model, only the timeaveraged flow field is computed, whereas the unsteady field is modeled through the turbulence model. If the flow is dominated by a broad spectrum of timescales, the low frequencies may be simulated partly by maintaining the time term in the RANS equations. In this case it is sometimes referred to as