Modern wind turbines are often clustered in wind parks in order to reduce the overall installation and maintenance expenses. An unwanted but inevitable effect, however, is that the power production of the interior turbines decreases and that the turbulence intensity in the wake increases because of the interaction from the wakes of the surrounding wind turbines. As a consequence, dynamic loadings are increased that may excite the structural parts of the individual wind turbine and increase fatigue loadings. The turbulence created from wind turbine wakes is mainly due to the dynamics of the vortices originating from the rotor blades. The vortices are formed as a result of the rotor loading. To analyze the genesis of the wake, it is thus necessary to include descriptions of the aerodynamics of both the rotor and the wake. Although many wake studies have been performed over the last two decades, a lot of basic questions still need to be clarified in order to elucidate the dynamic behavior of individual as well as multiple interactive wakes behind wind turbines (Vermeer et al., 2003). Most attempts to model the flow field in wind farms are based on simple single wake calculations combined with assumptions regarding the superposition of merging wakes. Various superposition approaches have been devised, ranging from linear superposition of the wake (Lissaman, 1979) or of the square of the wake deficits (Katic et al., 1986) to more physical approaches based on momentum conservation considerations (Frandsen et al., 2006) or parabolized NavierStokes modeling (Schepers and van der Pihl, 2007). Common to the abovementioned methods is that they are based on steadystate considerations and as a consequence disregard the various important dynamic wake effects that are known to take place in wind farms and that have a major impact on the wind turbine loadings. Even though some promising simplified dynamic wake models have been proposed (Frandsen, 2007 Larsen et al., 2008), these still remain to be combined with suitable models for wake interaction before they can be used for wind farm modeling. Another typical limitation of the existing wind farm models is that they only seek to predict the development of the mean velocity deficit and hence they do not take into account that the turbulence properties in the wake deviate significantly from that of the undisturbed atmospheric flow field. Frandsen (2007) argued that the various changes in the turbulence properties usually correlate with the standard deviation of wind speed fluctuations and so proposed a model for the fatigue loading of rotors in wind farms in which a variable designated the effective turbulence intensity is the only governing parameter. The proposed expression for the effective turbulence intensity depends on the Whler exponent of the considered material in order to combine different load cases. Thus, the effective turbulence is a design variable rather than a physical quantity. Generally, the model was shown to be more accurate than existing engineering models, although it occasionally produces results with large discrepancies when compared to measurements.