55your text  the examiner should not have to do your work by ferreting for points in tables and figures. That is, an examiner should be able to pass a thesis without having to look at any of its tables or figures, if he or she is in a hurry. Similarly, tables and figures should be able to be read somewhat independently of the text, so ensure the titles of tables and figures are rather long and selfexplanatory, and any symbols in a table are explained in a note to the table. That is, a table should be understood by someone who has not read the text. By the way, a table has rows and columns and a figure does not.;The title or a table or figure should be reasonably selfexplanatory that is, it should not be too short, and it source should be at the bottom. A table or figure should be referred to by number, not as above or below. Style Manual (2002, p. 348) has instructions about tables and figures for type setters but not for people using a word processor to write a thesis. I have tried to develop some rules of thumb for thesis writers that are as close as possible to Style Manuals standards, and examples of titles (with bold for the name but not for the number, and no full stop, 12 point font), and of notes and sources (with a full stop at the end of them, and they are in that order, in 11 or 10 point font) are;Table 4.1 Types of market entry into Thailand Figure 4.1 Type of channel structure used in each market Note Figures are for civilians whose family status could not be determined. Source Gibbs (1999). Source developed for this research. Source analysis of field data. Source analysis of survey data.;For further guidelines on referencing and style in Australia, refer to these four publications. The publications are in alphabetical order. The first is a classic for postgraduate students and an updated version can be obtained from the author. The fourth is the most authoritative about style the third is a summary of the fourth and also has a good treatment of how to reference internet sources, but note that it is based on the 1994 edition of Style Manual and the second is an excellent treatment of nearly all style issues in Australia.  Perry, C. 1998, A structured approach for presenting theses, Australasian Marketing;Journal, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 6385.; Smith, B.  Summers, J. (eds) 1997, Faculty of Business Communications Skills