Selvarajah, CT 1988, Marketing education in Malaysia implications for Australian tertiary institutions, Faculty of Business Staff Papers, Working Paper no. 43, Swinburne Institute of Technology, Melbourne.; There is a difference in the use of a full stop at the end of an abbreviation and acontraction. For example, Dr and Oct. are different because the r in Dr is the last letter in the full word but t is not the last letter in October.; Use single quotation marks rather than double quotation marks, except when you have aquotation within a quotation when double quotation marks should be used. Here is an example He said, Bill shouted at me, Go away! I could not believe it.; However, if your quotation is more than 30 words, present it as an indented paragraphwithout quotation marks and with a one line space before and after the indented paragraph. As well, the font should be one point less than normal, that is, 11 point font in a thesis that follows the usual 12 point font. This font size difference does not apply for quotations less than 30 words. For example, he said;I am going to speak more than 30 words. I am going to speak more than 30 words. I am going to speak more than 30 words. I am going to speak more than 30 words.;Note that all quotations should be preceded by a precis in your own words of what is in the quotation  you cannot hide behind someone elses words just because you do not have the brains to express the idea in your own words. It is your task to read the literature and synthesise its ideas into a pattern for your thesis. You should not force the examiner to do this by just plopping in a quotation for him or her to read. In brief, use short quotations that you have first expressed in your own words, and use them sparingly.  If you use your own, unusual words or slang words, present them with quotation;Note that all quotations should be preceded by a precis in your own words of what is in the quotation  you cannot hide behind someone elses words just because you do not have the brains to express the idea in your own words. It is your task to read the literature and synthesise its ideas into a pattern for your thesis. You should not force the examiner to do this by just plopping in a quotation for him or her to read. In brief, use short quotations that you have first expressed in your own words, and use them sparingly.  If you use your own, unusual words or slang words, present them with quotationmarks the first time you use them but not when you use the words after that for example, quasiprobabilistic and confirmatorydisconfirmatory test.  Present a title of a book or journal in italics, for example, Tom Thumb. Style Manual;marks the first time you use them but not when you use the words after that for example, quasiprobabilistic and confirmatorydisconfirmatory test.  Present a title of a book or journal in italics, for example, Tom Thumb. Style Manualgives you the choice of capitalising the first letter of all the words in a tittle or only the first one  I strongly recommend capitalising all of them because that is what most academic journal require.  Do not place full stops between the letters in established abbreviations like US or