52indent a list of bullet points and do not have a blank line after the semicolon that leads into the list. Style Manual suggests that a semi colon or comma is not required if you use a half space between each bullet point item, but using a half space is too tiresome when using a word processor  so just use a comma or semi colon at the end of each item without a space at all.; The start of a sentence or paragraph is the most powerful part  it has the most impacton a readers mind  so put the main idea you are trying to get across there at the start and do not waste that part on parenthetical issues. For example, the first sentence of a paragraph should be a topic or theme sentence that summarises the main idea or position that will be developed in the paragraph.; Use short sentences  about 1.5 to 2 lines is usually long enough.  Paragraphs should be about one main idea but do not use onesentence paragraphs ; Use short sentences  about 1.5 to 2 lines is usually long enough.  Paragraphs should be about one main idea but do not use onesentence paragraphs academic ideas should be deep enough to warrant more than one mere sentence to present them.; Try to have linkers at the start or near the start of paragraphs so the reader willdefinitely follow your line of thought from paragraph to paragraph. For example, use words and phrases like Furthermore, Thus, These influences, The next step is to and these.;(whichever your university requires SCU requires 3 cm) and other margins of the default 2.54 cms.;The issue of communication with examiners is crucial. this is a theme sentence or flag about the whole of this next section Consider an examiner. this is the theme sentence that summarises the whole of this paragraph He or she may be reading the thesis at 11 p.m. on Friday after a hard days work on more important things like their own research, their own students research or morale in their Department. A major reason for their agreeing to examine the thesis is a sense of duty to their discipline. Thus the student should try to make the process of examination as much like a journey on autopilot as possible, with changes in direction clearly marked, the track clearly flagged and each step in an argument explicitly explained, as described below. The examiner should not have to do any hard critical thinking as he or she follows the students journey. In other words, the candidate should try to neither make the examiner think too much nor to go to sleep rather, the examiner may hopefully drowse off for a minute or two, snapping fully awake every now and then to check that the thesis is still on track and fulfilling the expectations set up at the start of each section and subsection of material. In brief, the reader must be guided along a smooth, easilyfollowed path towards the conclusions that have excited the candidate and will hopefully excite the examiner into passing the thesis and perhaps asking the candidate to work with him or her on a research project in the future. this is a summary sentence that summarises and ties the whole paragraph together