Incidentally, having numbers in the headings of each section and subsections of the thesis, as shown in Table 1, will also help to make the large thesis appear organised and facilitate cross referencing between sections and subsections. However, some supervisors may prefer a student to use headings without numbers, because articles in journals do not have headings with numbers. But articles are far shorter than theses, and so I prefer to include an explicit skeleton in the form of numbered sections and subsections to carry the extra weight of a thesis.;Exploratorytheory building research and research issues. If the research is exploratorytheory building and uses a qualitative research procedure such as case studies or action research, then the literature review in Chapter 2 will unearth research issues or questions that will be the focus of the data collection described in later chapters and answered in Chapter 4. (Essentially, exploratory research is qualitative and asks what are the variables involved? in contrast, explanatory research is quantitative and asks  what are the precise relationships between variables? EasterbySmith et al. (1991) distinguish between qualitative and quantitative methodologies in management research, in detail.) Research issues or questions ask about what, who and where, for example, and so are not answered with a yes or a no, but with a description or discussion. For example, a research issue might be stated as;Pure exploratory research or induction which does not use research issues developed in Chapter 2 to guide data collection, is not appropriate for PhD research because a body of knowledge (the core of a PhD) is not the foundation for that kind of research (Phillips  Pugh 1994 Perry  Coote 1994 Perry 1998b). Indeed, Phillips and Pugh (1994, p. 52) assert that pure exploratory research is less likely to produce a contribution to knowledge than the testing out research recommended in this paper. Nevertheless, the exploratory research issues suggested above should supplement and not displace the subjects own meanings and interpretations during the qualitative research methodologies often used in exploratory research. That is, they provide an indication of areas of interest but should not be the only areas discussed during an interview. For example, an interview should begin with trying to discover the interviewees own meanings and subjective understandings, and the research issues should only be raised as probes towards the end of the interview if their topics have not been discussed in the earlier unstructured discussion (Perry  Coote 1994 Perry 1998b Patton 1992).;By the way, the word how in an exploratory research issues does not mean that an experiment is required to establish a direct cause and effect link between A and B. In social science research, such links are very hard to establish and so exploratory research searches for causal tendencies or generative mechanism that suggest a causal relationship only in some limited contexts (Perry, Reige and Brown 1998). As well, as noted earlier, the first person may be used in Chapter 3 of