 instruments or procedures used to collect data, including how the dependent variable was measured, details of pilot studies and explicit concern about specific procedures used to handle internal and external validity (as in Yin 1989, p. 41 Parkhe 1993, p. 260261 and  for qualitative research  Lincoln  Guba 1985, pp. 290294) note that the boundaries of external validity were implicitly addressed in Sections 1.2, 1.6 and 1.7; limitations of the methodology if they were not explicitly discussed in Section 1.7, for example, practical limitations on the sampling frame or size of questionnaire in survey research might be clarified and justified (for example, some types of respondents might have been missed because of their religious beliefs), and Parkhe (1993, p. 255) discusses some possible limitations of the case study methodology which should have been addressed in a thesis;In addition to the above, Chapter 3 should show that other variables that might influence results were controlled in the research design (and so held at one or two set levels) or properly measured for later inclusion in statistical analyses (for example, as a variable in regression analysis). This point is a very important consideration for examiners.;To fully demonstrate competence in research procedures, the statistical forms of hypotheses could be explicitly developed and justified in a thesis, even though such precision is often not required in far shorter journal articles describing similar research. Sekaran (1992, pp. 7984) provides an introduction to how this hypothesis development is done. Some students are confused between these statistical hypotheses and the more abstract propositions developed towards the end of a literature review. The propositions are framed in the form with which most experts would agree, for example, that smoking causes cancer. In contrast, the statistical hypotheses developed in Chapters 3 or 4 are in a form that is directly ready for statistical testing and have a format of a formal null hypothesis of zero difference, for example, that there is no association between smoking and cancer, and an alternative hypothesis of some difference. The null and the alternative hypotheses could be either directional or not. A directional hypothesis will require different forms of statistical tests of significance than a nondirectional hypothesis for example, the use of a directional hypothesis allows a onetailed test of significance.