24using a highmediumlow scale. After fifteen pages of reviewing the parent theory, the chapter addressed the research problem theory of inwards technology licensing by reviewing literature in four groups of influencing factors, summarised in a classification model of the theoretical framework being constructed. As sections of the chapter considered each of these groups, researchers were compared with each other and some hypotheses were developed where controversy or methodological weaknesses existed or research gaps in possibly interesting areas were identified. Particular concepts and the hypothesised directions of relationships between them were summarised in a detailed analytical model that grew out of the earlier classification model used to structure the literature review.;The second example of Chapter 2s structure is from a PhD thesis with a research problem about the marketing of superannuation services. Chapter 2 first demonstrated a familiarity with the parent theory by tracing the historical development of the term service so as to develop a definition of the term, but this survey became too big for Chapter 2, and so it was placed in an appendix and the main points summarised in Section 2.2 of Chapter 2 in words and a classification model with three major groups, each having four subgroups. The research problem theory was then identified as falling into one of the subgroups of the parent theory, its importance confirmed, and propositions worthy of further research unearthed as the chapter progressed through the research problem theorys own classification model and developed an analytical model of the theoretical framework being constructed. (Incidentally, some examiners may think too many appendices indicate the student cannot handle data and information efficiently, so do not expect examiners to read appendices to pass the thesis. They should be used only to provide evidence that procedures or secondary analyses have been carried out.);Context of the research. Some candidates might think that the context of the research should alos be described in the literature review. But should it? For example, should the economy of Thailand be summarised in the literature review if cases were to be collected in that country, or should the financial services industry in Australia be described if a survey was to be done in that industry in that country? In my own opinion, including a description of the context in the literature review is required only if the main contribution of the research depends on this context (this issue was introduced in the discussion of the research problem statement in Section 1.2). For example, consider a student who is researching how internet marketing communication (which was established in the West) is done in Thailand with its different type of economy and different culture (where the topic has not been researched by academics). That student should present a background to Thailand as one of the parent theories. But in a second example, a student who was researching the effect of internet marketing on relationships in the financial services industries in Australia would not need to include a description of the financial services industry in Chapter 2. The reason is that internet marketing might be done a bit differently in Australia than the way it is the United States, but that difference is not as important to the researchs contributions as the difference between internet and noninternet marketing. In this second example, the parent theories would be internet marketing and relationship marketing, and examples from financial services in Australia would be used to illustrate the points being made in those parent theories and in the research problem theory of Chapter 2. In this second example, a brief description of the Australian economy and internet activity within it could be placed in Chapter 2 just before the research problem theory is presented, or in an appendix.