There appear to be three necessary ingredients in successful joint initiatives a large andor expanding market, and complementary interests and skill. Physical proximity may also be important in joint initiatives other than those with customers, suppliers and RD providers.;Large andor expanding market. The most successful joint initiatives among Australias highgrowth firms were often in industries with large or expanding markets  and for Australia that means export markets. A strong export orientation creates a common focus and the sense of a bigger pie that allows partners to work together. This common perspective is often absent when firms compete for a small domestic market. The shipbuilding and downstream chemical industries in Australia and abroad provide two contrasting examples of this. Norwegian shipbuilders;Complementary interests and skills. Complementary interests and skills seem to be important, if obvious, ingredients of successful joint initiatives. It is not enough to simply get together  firms must have enough common ground to be useful to one another. Hunternet is a good example of how a network of firms with diverse but complementary interests can become a force for innovation and growth.;Final considerations. The above comments about structure and style correctly imply that a thesis with its readership of one, two or three knowledgeable examiners is different from a book which has a very wide readership among relatively ignorant undergraduate students (Derricourt 1992), and from shorter conference papers and journal articles which do not require the burden of proof and references to broader bodies of knowledge required in some theses. Research students should be aware of these differences and could therefore consider concentrating on completing the thesis before adapting parts of it for other purposes. However, it must be admitted that presenting a paper at a conference in a candidature may lead to useful contacts with the invisible college (Rogers 1983, p. 57) of researchers in a field. As well, some students