Chapter 5 is the most important chapter of the thesis, for after ensuring the methodology and research processes are sound, the examiners will spend much time studying Chapter 5. But the chapter is often marked by fatigue and Phillips and Pugh (1987, p. 56) note that in our experience its inadequacy is the single most common reason for requiring students to resubmit their theses after first presentation. So the student must discover springs of interest and creativity to make his or her Chapter 5 worthy of the rest of the thesis, and make it clearly show that the research does make a distinct contribution to the body of knowledge. Thus the researchs contributions to knowledge should be the explicit theme of Sections 5.2 to 5.4.;Actually, identifying what is a distinct contribution to knowledge can bewilder some students, as Phillips (1992, p. 128) found in a survey of Australian academics and students. Nevertheless, making a distinct contribution to knowledge would not go beyond the goal of stretching the body of knowledge slightly by using a relatively new methodology in a field, using a methodology in a country where it has not been used before, or making a synthesis or interpretation that has not been made before. So this task should not be too difficult if the research and the preceding chapters have been carefully designed and executed as explained in these notes.;Some of this researchs findings do confirm expectations from the extant literature but it is the first time that this has been done for Australian situations. These will be called advances on that previous research in this chapter  they are of interest because they add a new depth to our understanding of the phenomenon. However, these advances will not be called contributions in this chapter because our focus will be on more important contributions or additions to knowledge arising fro from findings about  disconfirmations of expectations derived in Chapter 2 from the literature, indicated by the themes with a to some extent entry in the table;A jigsaw puzzle analogy is useful for understanding what Chapter 5 is about. Research begins like a jumbled jigsaw puzzle about the research problem. Chapter 2s literature review starts