39dispute conclusions not clearly based on the research results. That is, there is a difference between the conclusions of the research findings in Sections 5.2 and 5.3 and implications drawn from them later in Sections 5.4 and 5.5. For example, if a qualitative methodology is used with limited claims for statistical generalisability, the conclusions must refer specifically to the people interviewed in the past  the Hong Kong managers placed small value on advertising rather than the present tense of Hong Kong managers place small value on price.;This section may sometimes be quite small if the propositions or research issues dealt with in the previous sections cover the area of the research problem in a comprehensive way. Nevertheless, the section is usually worth including for it provides a conclusion to the whole research effort. Thus it is advisable to try to put together a final conceptual framework that encapsulates the achievements of the thesis. For example, a thesis that used structural equation modelling could present the final model chosen from the rival models in Chapter 4, without the coefficients that cluttered up the many figures of the several models in Chapter 4.;Moreover, I suggest that this section conclude with a summary listing of the contributions of the research together with justifications for calling them contributions, if that is not clear from the discussion in the previous sections of this chapter. As noted earlier, the examiner is looking for these contributions and it may make his or her task easier if the student explicitly lists them after introducing them in earlier parts of this chapter.;This section should be especially important for qualitative, theorybuilding research for it will show the final theory that is developed and have a model of it in a figure, and also develop some propositions which later researchers can use to test the theory. That is, the section must have a rigorously developed conceptual framework with clearly defined and measurable variables, empirically testable research propositions (Varadararajan 1996, p. 6). Reference to these propositions will be made in the later Implications for further research section.;The full picture of the researchs findings within the body of knowledge is provided in Section 5.4, that is, it provides the theoretical implications of the research. This section aims to convince examiners that the PhD research has not only made a significant contribution to knowledge in its research problem theory as outlined in Sections 5.2 and 5.3, but also has implications for the wider body of knowledge, including the parent theories of Chapter 2 but also other related theories or discipline that were not even mentioned among the few parent theories of Chapter 2. The parent theories are those that are the direct background to the theoretical framework developed at the end of Chapter 2, but there may be other theories that could benefit from the findings of this research the broad range of disciplines mentioned in Section 1.1 might suggest some of these related theories. For example, in a PhD thesis with a research problem involving customer service, Section 5.4 might refer not only to the parent theories of services marketing but also to consumer behaviour, personality characteristics and psychological motivations. In a PhD thesis about international education, Section 5.4 might refer to international marketing and