Then the data for each research issue or proposition is usually presented, in the same order as they were presented in Chapters 2 and 3 and will be in Sections 5.2 and 5.3. Structuring the data analysis around the research issues or propositions hypotheses will ensure the student does not make the mistake of falling in love the data (Brown 1996) and tell the reader how beautiful all the data is  the data analysis must focus only on solving the research problem by looking at each research issue or hypothesis in turn. Sensitivity analyses of findings to possible errors in data (for example, ordinal rather than assumed interval scales) should be included. If qualitative research is being done, an additional section could be provided for data that was collected that does not fit into the research issue categories developed in the literature review of Chapter 2.;Note that the Chapter 4 structure suggested in the two paragraphs above does not include tests for response bias or tests of the assumptions of regression or similar statistical procedures. Some students may like to include them in Chapter 4, but they could discussed in Chapter 3 for they refer primarily to the methodology rather than to the data analysis which will be directly used to test research issues or hypotheses.;In Chapter 4, the data should not be merely presented and the examiner expected to analyse it. One way of ensuring adequate analysis is done by the student is to have interpretive words describing the data followed by numbers placed in brackets, for example, most survey respondents (69 percent) For the same reason, test statistics, degrees of freedom or sample size (to allow the examiner to check test statistics details in tables, if he or she wishes) and p values should be explained in words that show the student knows what they mean, followed by their values placed in brackets. An example of an appropriate analysis is;Question 9 explored attitudes to product quality and respondents answers are summarised in Table 4.6. Most respondents (59.2 percent) agreed that the product quality was important, but a sizeable minority (27.8 percent) had no view about product quality  a somewhat surprising finding which will also be discussed within the context of the literature in Section 5.4.3... A ttest was used to discern the relationship between attitudes to product quality and price (Section 4.9), because both were measured with an interval scale. No significant difference between the means of attitudes to the two variables was found (t  1.56, dof  23, 25 p  0.35). A practical implication of this finding is that the shoppers considered product quality and price separately.;Most researchers in reputable journals do not provide precise p values when reporting the analysis of their data and merely say whether the test statistic is significant at a certain level, for example, p0.05. However, other researchers consider that this procedure does not provide all the information offered by modern computer programs and so prefer to report the precise p value, as was done in the example above. One compromise between these two positions would be to use a particular level in the text, for example, p0.01, and have the precise p levels listed in a table.;The discussion of results above was based on quantitative analysis. Reporting the analysis of qualitative data is slightly different. Firstly, the overall patterns in the data are presented, with reasons for those patterns occurring included. There is no reference to numbers of respondents or cases here, because the sample will have been chosen in a purposive way and so there can be no claim for statistical representativeness (Patton 1992). Then the reader could be referred to a matrix of the findings (Miles  Huberman 1994) where more details can be found to support the