Theories and issuespropositions. After the research problem and a brief summary of how it will be solved is presented, Section 1.2 presents the major bodies of theory which will be covered in Chapter 2 (in about one page or so) and then lists the research issues or propositions that will be developed in Chapter 2 to focus later data collection and analysis. The research problem above usually refers to decisions in contrast, the research issues and propositions usually require information for their solution. The research issues or propositions are the specific questions that the researcher will gather data about in order to satisfactorily solve the research problem (Emory  Cooper 1991).;The research issues or propositions listed after the research problem in Section 1.2 are developed in Chapter 2, so they are little more than merely listed in Section 1.2. The section states that they are established in Chapter 2 and notes the sections in which they appear in that chapter.;Note that early drafts of parts of Chapters 1 and 2 are written together from the start of the candidature, although not necessarily in the order of their sections (Nightingale 1992). That is, the major ideas in Chapters 1 and 2 should have crystallised in drafts before the research work described in Chapter 3 starts, and the thesis is not left to be written up after the research. It is especially important that Chapter 2 is crystallised before the data collection actually starts, to prevent the data collection phase missing important data or wasting time on unimportant material. In other words, the research load must be identified, sorted out and tied down before the wagon of research methodology begins to roll. Despite this precaution, students will probably have to continue to rewrite some parts of Chapters 1 and 2 towards the end of their candidature, as their understanding of the research area continues to develop.;Contributions. As part of the approach to a thesis not being a detective story, this Section 1.2 should also briefly describe the contributions that the thesis will make in its final chapter. This description should be limited to less than one or two pages. This part could begin with Answering the research issues provided contributions that will be presented in Section 5.2. In summary, this research made seven contributions. Firstly,;Examiners are concerned that the student has not addressed a trivial research area. It is not enough to show there are gaps in the body of knowledge, they must be important gaps (Varadarajan 1966). That is, the research problem should be important on several theoretical and practical grounds for example, a thesis about small businesses could justify its research problem through about four points, starting with the theory gap because that is the gap that most interests an examiner before moving on to demonstrations that the gap is an important one (as recommended by Varadarajan 1996) i relative neglect of the specific research problem by previous researchers (some of this justification would refer to Chapter 2, for there is no need to repeat parts of Chapter 2 here however, Chapter 2 deals with the nitty gritty of individual research issues while this section should emphasise the whole research problem and possibly conclude with some appropriate quotes from authorities about the research problem)