3his or her faculty for the three criteria above and if the faculty has additional criteria (Nightingale 1992). As well, a supervisor may be able to produce copies of previous examiners reports.;The paper has two parts. Firstly, the five section or chapter structure is introduced, possible changes to it are justified and writing style is considered. Importantly, there does not have to be exactly five chapters, for adding one or two chapters to the five presented here can be justified, as discussed below and shown in Table 1. That is, I sometimes refer to the five sections or chapters as chapters below merely for easy reference, and having two chapters in Section 2 or two chapters in Section 3, for example, can be easily justified in a PhD thesis. In the second part, each of the five chapters and their sections are described in some detail introduction, literature review, methodology, analysis of data, and findings and implications.;Delimitations. The structured approach may be limited to postgraduate theses in marketing and related areas such as strategic management that involve similar quantitative and qualitative methodologies. That is, the structure may not be appropriate for theses in other areas or for theses using relatively unusual methodologies such as historical research designs or grounded theory. Moreover, the structure is a starting point for thinking about how to present a thesis rather than the only structure that can be adopted, and so it is not meant to inhibit the creativity of postgraduate researchers.;Another delimitation of the approach is that it is restricted to presenting the final version of the thesis. This paper does not address the techniques of actually writing a thesis. Moreover, the approach in this paper does not refer to the actual sequence of writing the thesis, nor is it meant to imply that the issues of each chapter have to be addressed by the student in the order shown. For example, the propositions at the end of Chapter 2 are meant to appear to be developed as the chapter progresses, but the student might have a welldeveloped idea of what they will be before he or she starts to write the chapter. Moreover, although the methodology of Chapter 3 must appear to be been selected because it was appropriate for the research problem identified and carefully justified in Chapter 1, the student may have actually selected a methodology very early in his or her candidature and then developed an appropriate research problem and justified it. Moreover, after a student has sketched out a draft table of contents for each chapter, he or she should begin writing the easiest parts of the thesis first as they go along, whatever those parts are  and usually introductions to chapters are the last to written (Phillips  Pugh 1987, p. 61). But bear in mind that the research problem, delimitations and research gaps in the literature must be identified and written down before other parts of the thesis can be written, and that Section 1.1 is one of the last to be written. Nor is this structure meant to be the format for a research proposal  one proposal format is provided in Parker and Davis (1979). Finally, although this structure is meant for theses, it can also apply to journal articles. Varadarajan (1996), the Editor of the prestigious Journal of Marketing, offered guidelines for articles that are remarkably similar to those presented below, and so it is recommended reading.