Explanatorytheory testing research and propositions. On the other hand, if the research is explanatorytheory testing and so refers to queries about how or why and uses some quantitative research methodology often used in explanatory research such as regression analysis of survey data, then Chapter 2 unearths testable propositions that can be answered with a yesor no with a precise answer to questions about how many or what proportion (Emory  Cooper 1991). That is, research issues in exploratorytheory building research are open and require words as data to answer, and propositions in explanatorytheory testing research are closed and require numbers as data to solve. For example, a proposition might be presented as a question that can be answered yes or no through statistical testing of measured constructs such as;Each construct in the proposition (for example, specialisation of telemarketing representatives) must be capable of being measured precisely how the instruments were designed to measure the constructs is described later in Chapter 3. That is, operational definitions of the constructs developed for propositions are not divulged until Chapter 3, that is, the statistical form of a hypothesis involving null and alternative hypotheses about means, distributions or correlation coefficients, for example, is not presented until Chapters 3 and 4. Indeed, this distinction between hypotheses about constructs in Chapter 2 and hypotheses about population statistics in Chapter 3 can be confusing. Thus we have chosen to refer to Chapter 2s focii for data collection and analysis as propositions and restrict the term hypothesis to the associated and similarly numbered statistical forms developed in Chapter 3, after operational definitions of constructs identified in Chapter 2 have been constructed to allow the constructs in the propositions to be put into the detailed form required for a hypothesis that can be directly tested statistically with survey data. In Chapter 3, the direct links between the propositions and the hypotheses should be made explicit in the text and in a table. Some candidates and their supervisors may prefer to not make this distinction between propositions and hypotheses if the differences are small.;In some PhD research, there may be a mix of qualitative research issues and quantitative hypotheses, and a case study methodology can combine both in either exploratory and explanatory research (Yin 1989). Generally speaking, the total number of research issues andor propositions should not exceed about four or five or so if there are more, sufficient analysis may not be done on each within the space constraints of a PhD thesis. Whether research issues or propositions are used, they should be presented in the way that informed judges accept as being most likely. For example, the proposition that smoking causes cancer is preferred to smoking does not cause cancer. The transformation of the propositions into statistical null and alternate hypotheses (where the null hypothesis always refers to a no difference situation, for example, that smoking does not cause cancer) is left until Chapter 3.