Chapter 3 if they help in developing the operational definitions of constructs) or to slightly extend or generalise the findings of the main method (for example, some interviews to confirm an unexpected result which could be described in Chapter 4 or 5). So Chapter 3 usually centres on the major methodology of the research, although the same considerations might be briefly mentioned when discussing any secondary methodologies.;Level of detail in Chapter 3. Chapter 3 about data collection must be written so another trained researcher could replicate the research. That is, there must be enough detail for a reasonably knowledgeable colleague to repeat the data collection and analysis (Lindsay 1995, p.14). But there is a second consideration involved in deciding how much detail to put in the chapter  the candidate must also show the examiner that he or she understands the methodology. The candidate can assume that the examiner has a good undergraduate training in the methodology and two to three years research experience (Brown 1996, p. 49), but the examiner cannot assume that about the candidate. Thus students will have to provide enough detail to show the examiner that the student also knows the body of knowledge about the methodology and its procedures, even if it is in only a couple of sentences with references. If the techniques are advanced ones like structural equation modelling which are only covered in postgraduate courses, one or two of the examiners may have to be brought up to steam on the technique and so more material will be necessary to cover more details of the technique and why they were used, than when a basic technique is being used.;That is, examiners need to be assured that all critical procedures and processes have been followed. For example, a thesis using regression as the prime methodology should include details of the pilot study, handling of response bias and tests for assumptions of regression. A thesis using factor analysis would cover preliminary tests such as Bartletts and scree tests and discuss core issues such as the sample size and method of rotation. A thesis using a survey would discuss the usual core steps of population, sampling frame, sample design, sample size and so on in order (Davis  Cosenza 1993, p. 221);In addition to critical procedures and processes, students must show familiarity with controversies and positions taken by authorities. That is, students must show familiarity with the body of knowledge about the methodology, just as they did with the bodies of knowledge in Chapter 2. Indeed, Phillips and Pugh (1987) equate the body of knowledge about the methodology with the body of knowledge about the background and focal theories of Chapter 2, calling the former the data theory. An example of this familiarity for students using a qualitative methodology would be an awareness of how validity and reliability are viewed in qualitative research, in a discussion of how the ideas in EasterbySmith et al. (1991, pp. 4041) and Lincoln and Guba (1985, Chapter 11) were used in the research. Familiarity with this body of knowledge can often be demonstrated when the methodology is justified and when research procedures are described and justified, rather than in a big section about the body of knowledge on its own. For example, providing details of the telephone survey used for the research is inadequate, for the advantages and disadvantages of other types of surveys must also be discussed and the choice of a telephone survey justified (Davis  Cosenza 1993, p. 287). Another example would be to show awareness of the controversy about whether a Likert scale is interval or merely ordinal (Newman 1994, pp. 153, 167) and justify adoption of interval scales by reference to authorities like a student who said