15required. Sometimes there may be subproblems to the major research problem. Examples of research problems in a masters thesis would be  How and why do New South Wales and Queensland private sector managers successfully implement telemarketing into their organisations?;The research problem in a PhD thesis is often more theoretical than the two examples from Masters theses above, for a PhD research problem should not be merely a problemsolving one but should test out the limits of previously proposed generalisations (Phillips  Pugh 1987, p. 45). That is, PhD research, even when narrowly and tightly defined, should be guided by some explicit theoretical or conceptual framework and without this, the thesis becomes a mindless ... theoretical wasteland (Adams  White 1994, pp. 566, 574). That theoretical framework will be developed in Chapter 2, but one or two of its constructs could be reflected in the research problem. Examples of appropriate PhD research problems are . How culturally appropriate is TQM for reconceptualising African management?;When formulating the research problem, its boundaries or delimitations should be carefully considered, even if these considerations are not made explicit in the wording of the research problem. Indeed, it is requires judgement to decide how delimited the statement of a research problem should be. Examiners are academics and they want academic research to be different from research done by mere consultants that is very contextspecific, for example, developed for just one firm. Thus, the research problem in a PhD thesis that is about the finance industry in Australia might be advised to not include Australia in the research problem statement. The thesis might then simply refer to Australia in a sentence after the research problem statement, or even leave mention of it to the delimitations in Section 1.7. This judgement call about how contextspecific the research problem statement should be, probably depends on the importance of the context to the contributions of the thesis. For example, if Australia was merely a research setting in a PhD thesis and was not expected to affect results much, then it could be left out of the research problem statement. However, if DBA thesis contributions were based upon its Malaysian context, then Malaysia should be included in the research problem statement. This issue of the context of research is explored further in the discussion of Chapter 2 below.