53theme sentence next that summarises the whole of this paragraph Firstly, have sections and subsections starting as often as very second or third page, each with a descriptive heading in bold. Secondly, start each section or subsection with a phrase or sentence linking it with what has gone before, for example, a sentence might start with Given the situation described in Section 2.3.4 or Turning from international issues to domestic concerns, ... The important issue here is that the examiner is led on from old ideas which he or she has already digested with, to new ideas we all need an opportunity to get comfortable with old material before new material is thrown at us (Lindsay 1995, p. 56). Next, briefly describe the argument or point to be made in the section at its beginning, for example, Seven deficiencies in models in the literature will be identified. As well, make each step in the argument easy to identify with a key term in italics or the judicious use of firstly, secondly, or moreover, in addition, in contrast and so on. as is being done in this paragraph Finally, end each section with a summary, to establish what it has achieved this summary sentence or paragraph could be flagged by usually beginning it with In conclusion,... or In brief,... In brief, following these five principles will make arguments easy to follow and so guide the examiner towards agreeing with a students views.;Chunkiness. The concept of a chunk can help summarise some of the discussion above.another linker and a theme sentence that introduces the whole of this next section As shown at the start of the thesis in Section 1.2, the whole thesis is one big chunk of an idea.. a theme sentence for this paragraph But each part of the thesis should be a chunky part of the whole thesis, with links to other parts. For a start, each chapter should have its own role within the thesis such as Chapter 2s identification of research issues about which data is collected in Chapter 3. Each chapter has section and subsection chunks with a numbering system that reflects their interrelationships (such as 3.2, 3.2.1 and 3.2.2). Then each subsection has chunks of paragraphs within it, sometimes indicated with runin headings.;Next there are individual paragraphs. another linker and theme sentence These are almost always longer than one sentence and take up about one third of a page or so. Each paragraph usually have a linker word at the start such as Next or Furthermore. These linkers at the start of a paragraph lead the examiner from alreadydigested ideas into a new idea. Each paragraph deals with one idea that is introduced and summarised in a theme sentence near the start, for the start of a paragraph is a hot spot that the reader will normally concentrate upon (Lindsay 1995). Finally, each sentence has one small idea, with the most important aspect of the sentence presented at its start that is, do not waste the hot spot at the start of a sentence on a relatively unimportant phrase like As shown in Table 6, rather, place these unimportant phrases at the end of a sentence after a comma. Sentences also often have a linker word at the start such as However to guide the reader from the known content of the previous sentence into the new material in the sentence. If there is no linker, the reader will assume the new sentence leads directly from the previous sentence. In brief, the thesis should be a string of clear chunks of ideas. another summarising sentence to finish off the section or paragraph