31bias their findings. For example, one researcher wrote (Pettigrew 1999, p. 151);At the time of the data collection, the researcher was selfdescribed as a white, Australian, latetwenties, middle class, nonbeer drinking, nonsmoking, tertiaryqualified, married female. Numerous preconceptions came along with these characteristics.;Incidentally, I think that as rough rules of thumb, PhD research requires at least 350 respondents in a quantitative survey or at least 35 to 45 interviews in four to twelve qualitative case studies. Honours research requires about 50 to 100 respondents in a survey, or at least four to five interviews, in four to five case studies. Masters research will be between these two limits.;A rigorous methodology. In brief, Chapter 3 describes the methodology adopted (for example, a mail survey and a particular need for achievement instrument), in a far more detailed way than in the introductory description of Section 1.5. The operational definitions of constructs used in questionnaires or interviews to measure an hypothesised relationship will be described and justified, for example, how an interval scale was devised for the questionnaire. Note that some authorities consider that PhD research should rarely use a previously developed instrument in a new application without extensive justification  they would argue that an old instrument in a new application is merely Masters level work and is not appropriate for PhD work. However, often parts of the PhD instrument could have been developed by authorities (for example, a need for achievement instrument), but those parts must still be justified through previous studies of reliability and validity andor be piloted to the PhD students requirements in order to assess their reliability and validity, and alternatives must be carefully considered and rejected. Any revisions to the authoritys instrument must be identified and justified. Alternatively, multiitem measures could be developed for constructs that have been previously measured with a single item, to increase reliability and validity. It can be argued that an old instrument in a new application will be an original investigation, and so a new or partlynew instrument is not an absolute necessity for PhD research (Phillips, E. 1992, pers. comm.). Nevertheless, I recommend some qualitative pilot studies before an old instrument is used  they will confirm its appropriateness and may suggest additional questions that help develop new ideas for the thesis, thus reducing the risk that an examiner will disapprove of the thesis.;Let us turn to more precise details of Chapter 3. The chapter should have separate sections to cover  justification for the methodology in terms of the research problem and the literature review, for example, a qualitative methodology requires a research problem involving peoples constructions of meanings which have not previously been explored (Hassard 1990)  Yin (1989, p. 17) has a table which might help in writing about this incidentally, recent theses are showing an awareness of the strengths and weaknesses of the positivist and phenomological paradigms as a basis for discussing choice of methodology (Phillips  Pugh 1987, p. 55 Orlikowski  Baroudi 1991 EasterbySmith et al. 1991, pp. 2232 Patton 1992, pp. 163 Newman 1994, Chapter 4 Perry  Coote 1994 Perry 1998b Guba  Lincoln 1994) Table 2 summarises these considerations