10qualitative thesis, for example (EasterbySmith et al. 1991), or an examiner who will require three research methods is not chosen for a straightforward thesis with one. That is, do not get involved in the crossfire of religious wars of some disciplines.;Moreover, this early and open consideration of examiners allows the student to think about how his or her ideas will be perceived by likely individual examiners and so express the ideas in a satisfactory way, for example, explain a line of argument more fully or justify a position more completely for an examiner who may not have a strong background in a particular area. One starting point for thinking about who could be an examiner is to consider the journals in which articles about the research may be published during or after the candidature. Then finding out who is the Editor and who is on the Editorial Board of these journals will be a starting point for thinking about examiners and their interests, publications and styles. (Day (1996) confirms the importance of this procedure for getting articles published in academic journals). That is, in a students thesis, he or she must communicate with reallife people in an easilyfollowed way.;This issue of communication with examiners is crucial. Consider an examiner. He or she may be reading the thesis at 11 pm on Friday after a hard days work on more important things like their own research, their own students research or morale in their Department. A major reason for their agreeing to examine the thesis is a sense of duty to their discipline. Thus the student should try to make the process of examination as much like a journey on autopilot as possible, with changes in direction clearly marked, the track clearly flagged and each step in an argument explicitly explained, as described below. The examiner should not have to do any hard critical thinking as he or she follows the students journey. In brief, the candidate should try to neither make the examiner think too much nor to go to sleep rather, the examiner may hopefully drowse off for a minute or two, snapping fully awake every now and then to check that the thesis is still on track and fulfilling the expectations set up at the start of each section and subsection of material. In brief, the reader must be guided along a smooth, easilyfollowed path towards the conclusions that have excited the candidate and will hopefully excite the examiner into passing the thesis and perhaps asking the candidate to work with him or her on a research project in the future.;This easilyfollowed communication can be achieved by using several principles. Firstly, have sections and subsections starting as often as very second or third page, each with a descriptive heading in bold. Secondly, start each section or subsection with a phrase or sentence linking it with what has gone before, for example, a sentence might start with Given the situation described in Section 2.3.4 or Turning from international issues to domestic concerns, ... The important issue here is that the examiner is led on from old ideas which he or she has already digested with, to new ideas we all need an opportunity to get comfortable with old material before new material is thrown at us (Lindsay 1995, p. 56). Thirdly, briefly describe the argument or point to be made in the section at its beginning, for example, Seven deficiencies in models in the literature will be identified. Fourthly, make each step in the argument easy to identify with a key term in italics or the judicious use of firstly, secondly, or moreover, in addition, in contrast and so on. Finally, end each section with a summary, to establish what it has achieved this summary sentence or paragraph could be flagged by usually beginning it with In conclusion,... or In brief,... In brief, following these five principles will make arguments easy to follow and so guide the examiner towards agreeing with a students views.