Details of Chapter 2. Having established the overall processes of Chapter 2, this discussion can now turn to more detailed considerations. Most pieces of literature should be included in a summary table which covers all or most of the details below. The accompanying text does not need to be as detailed unless some of the details are particularly relevant, but the text should nevertheless demonstrate that you have read the understood the role that each reference has played in the development of the body of knowledge, that is, the contribution to the body of knowledge that is relevant to the research problem  how it compares and contrast with the positions developed by other researchers.;In brief, providing a concise description of the research topics and methodologies underlying findings reached by writers will provide a basis for the students view of the value of their findings to the body of knowledge, will remind the examiner of the research involved, and will help the student to carefully chart the boundaries of the body of knowledge. (Incidentally, it is courteous to reference as many publications as possible of likely examiners.);Useful guides to how contributions to a body of knowledge can be assessed and clustered into groups for classification and analytical models are many articles in each issue of The Academy of Management Review, the literature review parts of articles in the initial overview section of major articles in The Academy of Management Journal and other prestigious academic journals, and the chairpersons summing up of various papers presented at a conference. Heide (1994) provides an example of a very analytical treatment of two parent theories and one research problem theory, and Leedy (1993, pp. 8895) provides a thorough guide to collecting sources and writing a literature review. Finally, Cooper (1989) discusses sources of literature and suggests that keywords and databases be identified in the thesis to improve the validity and reliability of a literature review.;If a quotation from a writer is being placed in the literature review or elsewhere in the thesis, the quotation should be preceded by a brief description of what the student perceives the writer is saying. For example, the indirect description preceding a quotation might be ZuberSkerritt and Knight (1986, p. 93) list three benefits of having a research problem to guide research activities Such an indirect description or precis preceding quotations demonstrate that the student understands the importance of the quotation and that his or her own ideas are in control of the shape of the review of the literature. Moreover, quotations should not be too long, unless they are especially valuable the student is expected to precis long slabs of material in the literature, rather than quote them  after all, the student is supposed to be writing the thesis. For this reason, one supervisor I know insists on students keeping quotations to less than three words.