34you have to incorporate it into your text  the examiner should not have to do your work by ferreting for points in tables and figures. That is, an examiner should be able to pass a thesis without having to look at any of its tables or figures, if he or she is in a hurry. Similarly, tables and figures should be able to be read somewhat independently of the text, so ensure the titles of tables and figures are rather long and selfexplanatory, and any symbols in a table are explained in a note to the table. That is, a table should be understood by someone who has not read the text. By the way, a table has rows and columns and a figure does not.;Significance of test results is reported in the three ways suggested by Coolican (1990, p. 174), based on p the probability level  significant 0.05  p  0.01; highly significant 0.01  p  0.001 and; very highly significant 0.001  p.;Note that some statisticians prefer to not accept the null hypothesis just because it is not rejected (because the type II error involved in acceptance is not known, although the Type I error involved in rejection is), hence the practical implications of a statistical test involving no significant difference between test statistics must be made explicit from the statistically expressed result, that is, it should not be not confused with the statistical result. An example of this separation of statistical and practical meanings of statistical test is shown below.;The introduction of Chapter 4 may be different from introductions of other chapters because it refers to the following chapter as well as the preceding chapter, for Chapter 5 will discuss the findings of Chapter 4 within the context of the literature. Without this warning, an examiner may wonder why some of the implications of the results are not drawn out in Chapter 4. Chapter 4 should be restricted to presentation and analysis of the collected data, without drawing general conclusions or comparing results to those of other researchers who were discussed in Chapter 2. That is, although Chapter 4 may contain references to the literature about methodologies, it should not contain references to other literature. If the chapter also includes references to other research, the more complete discussion of Chapter 5 will be undesirably repetitive and confused. In any case, it is traditional in science to separate the results from the discussion of their significance, to preserve objectivity. To qualify each result, or group of results, with comments and comparisons gives the strong impression that you are trying to influence the objective judgment of the reader. (Lindsay 1995, p. 17);After the introduction, descriptive data about the subjects is usually provided, for example, their gender or industry in survey research, or a brief description of case study organisations in case study research. This description helps to assure the examiner that the student has a good feel for the data, that is, they know good researchers have to handle their own rats (Frost  Stablein 1992, p. 271).