Asking the familiar questions of who, what, where, how and why (Yin 1989, p. 17) may lead the student towards placing these appropriate boundaries around the research problem.;All the boundaries of the research problem will be explicit in the research problem or in Section 1.7, however, all the boundaries should be justified in Section 1.7. In the example above, restricting the research problem to Queensland and New South Wales telemarketing could be based on those states being more advanced than the rest of Australia. That is, the boundaries cannot be arbitrary. Within those boundaries, the data and the conclusions of this PhD research should apply outside those boundaries, it can be questioned whether the results will apply.;Identifying the research problem will take some time, and is an exercise in gradually reducing uncertainty as it is narrowed and refined (Phillips and Pugh 1987, p. 37). Nevertheless, early identification of a preliminary research problem focuses research activity and literature searches, and so is an important early part of the PhD research project (ZuberSkerritt  Knight 1986). The Introductory Notes on page 1 of these notes outlined some considerations in choosing a research problem. An example of the gradual narrowing of a research problem is a students problem about the partners in small Australian architectural practice which initially referred to practice of strategic management, then to designing and implementing a strategy, then to implementing a strategy and finally to the processes involved in implementing a strategy.;After the research problem is presented, a short paragraph should say how the problem will be solved in the thesis. This step is necessary because academic writing should not be a detective story with the solution kept a mystery until the end (Brown 1995). An example of this paragraph following a research problem statement is (based on Heide 1994, p. 71);Another example of a research problem and its solution in Section 1.2 is (based on Eisenhardt  Zbaracki 1992, pp. 1718);I conclude that a strategic decision makers are boundedly rational, that power wins battles of choice and chance matters. I also propose a new agenda for future research which centres on a few, key research areas and opens up research to new paradigms.