Some students might like to describe the unit of analysis here, for example, firm or manager. Whether it is described here or in Chapter 3 is not important, just as long as it is identified and justified somewhere in the thesis.;This chapter laid the foundations for the report. It introduced the research problem and research issues. Then the research was justified, definitions were presented, the methodology was briefly described and justified, the report was outlined, and the limitations were given. On these foundations, the report can proceed with a detailed description of the research.;Chapter 2 Research issues The second chapter aims to build a theoretical foundation upon which the research is based by reviewing the relevant literature to identify research issues which are worth researching because they are controversial and have not been answered by previous researchers. That is, the literature review is not an end in itself, but is a means to the end of identifying the worthy research issues that will be listed in the chapters conclusion and were briefly introduced to the examiner in Section 1.2. It is this point about the chapter being a means to an end that prompts its title being Research issues rather than Literature review. Incidentally, the chapter is about the extant literature, so the students own ideas or opinions have no place in this chapter, except where they are used to structure the treatment of the literature and to create the theoretical framework at the end of the chapter, and are clearly supported by authorities, evidence or logic.;The survey of the literature in a thesis should not only concentrate on the area of the research problem described in Section 1.2, for as well as including the research problem theory of the research problem (for example, employee motivation or customer service), the literature review should also demonstrate a familiarity with some parent theories (for example, employee psychology or services marketing). University of Oregon (n.d.) called these two types of theories the parent and immediate disciplines. The authorities Phillips and Pugh (1987) descriptively named these two types of theories as background and focus theories, respectively. I prefer to combine these two sources into the parent theory and the research problem theory because parent emphasises that the parent must be relevant to resolving the research problem and not any mere background theory, and research problem emphasises why the theory is a focus of Chapter 2, that is, and why it is immediate.;Relatedly, Phillips and Pugh (1987) said that a students research should be testing out research, that is, research which tests out the limits of previously proposed theories. For example, theory about marketing brands has almost been completely based on research about goods PhD research could test out whether this goodsbased theory applies to services. Brands and services marketing would be the parent theories and the research problem theory would consider them together. Another example would be to test out whether the theory about relationship marketing applies to cybermarketing. Yet another example would be to test whether traditional theory about product strategy applies in database marketing. Thus this concept of