Whatever research the student finally chooses to do, he or she must record the research in a thesis. This note outlines a structure for a five section or chapter PhD, DBA, Masters or honours thesis, and is written for students in marketing or a related field and their supervisors. The structure is summarised in Figure 1 and in Table 1. (Note that there does not have to be exactly five chapters, for adding one or two chapters to the five sections or chapters presented here can be justified, as discussed below and shown in Table 1. That is, when I refer to chapters below, I do so merely for easy reference, and having two chapters in Section 2 or two chapters in Section 3, for example, can be easily justified in a PhD or DBA thesis.) Other writers have provided general procedures for the many parts of the PhD research process (for example, Davis  Parker 1979 Phillips  Pugh 1987 Perry 1990), but these notes concentrate on the thesis itself and do so more comprehensively and with far more examples than other writers (for example, Clark 1986 Pratt 1984 Witcher 1990). That is, this paper addresses the problem;Essentially, I argue that a thesis should follow certain style conventions and have five sections introduction, literature review, methodology, analysis of data, and conclusions and implications. Following this structure and using care about a standard style will make the thesis match the expectations of most examiners and provide training for much research work afterwards.;This problem is important for postgraduate research students. Many universities provide little guidance to students, prompting the criticism that, at one university, the conditions for the award of degrees in the Graduate Study section of the calendar give more precise information on the size of the paper to be used and the margins to be left on each side of the sheet than on the universitys understanding of what a thesis is (Massingham 1984, p. 15). By using the structure developed below, a student will ensure his or her thesis demonstrates the key requirements of a PhD thesis (Moses 1985)  a distinct contribution to a body of knowledge through an original investigation or testing of ideas, worthy in part of publication (see Chapter 5 described below)  this requirement is usually the most important one for a PhD thesis but may not be so important for a Masters or honours thesis, as Moses notes