23views come to the fore now, as he or she constructs a new theoretical framework which has not been developed previously in the literature  this theoretical framework is used to develop the propositions or research issues about the previously unexplored research problem theory, about which data will be collected in later chapters. The parent theories were merely the points of departure for the main journey of the research, that is, the development of the new theoretical framework that is the research problem theory  within this theory, research issuespropositions from the theoretical framework will be used to focus data collection. Indeed, some thesis writers prefer to put this research problem theory into a chapter of its own, to clearly demonstrate how it differs from the somewhat less creative literature review of the parent theories.;A second, more analytical model of core constructs and their relationships based on this analysis of the research problem theory, is developed as the text describing the theoretical framework that is created. This analytical model will usually explicitly consider relationships between concepts, and so there will be arrows between the groups of concepts (Figure 1 is an example). Sekaran (1992, Chapter 3) discusses this model building procedure for quantitative research. This analytical model is a very important part of Chapter 2, for it summarises the theoretical framework from which the propositions or research issues flow at the end of the chapter. Showing appropriate section and subsection numbers on these models (like 2.1, 2.2 and so on) will help referencing of them in the body of the report. In other words, a theoretical framework with justified variables and their relationships that provides an anchor for the development of research issuespropositions towards the end of Chapter 2, is essential.;Examples. In brief, Chapter 2 reviews the parent and research problem theories, with the aims of charting the body of knowledge with a summary model or two, showing where the research problem fits into that body of knowledge and then identifying research issues or propositions. These will focus the discussion of later chapters on directions where further research is required to answer the research problem, that is, having sections in Chapter 3 and 4 explicitly related to the propositions or research issues facilitates the seamless characteristic of an effective thesis.;Of course, each student will write Chapter 2 differently because it involves so much personal creativity and understanding and so the chapters structure may end up being different from that suggested in these notes. Nevertheless, two examples of Chapter 2 based on the structure might be useful for beginning research students. Note how skilfully the students have linked their reviews of the parent and research problem theories.;The first example of how to structure Chapter 2 is provided in a PhD thesis which had a research problem about inward technology licensing. Chapter 2 began by developing a definition of inward technology licensing, and then reviewed the parent theory of new product development. In a chronological discussion of major researchers, the review showed a familiarity with major conceptual issues in the parent theory of new product development such as approaches to new product development which are alternatives to inward technology licensing, the importance of new product development, its riskiness, and its stages with their influencing factors. The review acknowledged disagreements between authorities without developing research issues or propositions, and established that inward technology licensing was an interesting part of the parent theory to research, summarised in a table which compared inward technology licensing with some other methods of new product development on three criteria,