19definitions will underly the data collection procedures and so put boundaries around the findings (although literature using other definitions will of course be included in the literature reviewed in Chapter 2). A definition of a core construct may be discussed in depth later at the beginning of Chapter 2, and defining the construct in this Section 1.6 can merely present the definition and refer to the discussion in Chapter 2.;Students should try to use definitions of authorities wherever possible, so that the results of the research can be fitted into the body of literature and so that the thesis can withstand attacks by examiners with trivial personal preferences. For example, Emory and Cooper (1991) could be used as a standard for research procedures and terms  their definitions of terms such as construct, research issue, hypothesis and operational definition are assumed for this paper. Perhaps the student could make some minor changes to a standard definition to make it particularly appropriate to the thesis doing this will illustrate a critical mind at work which is aware of the overriding need to solve the research problem. Justification for some of these definitions might have to refer to the next section about the justified delimitations of the thesis, but do not use definitions that restrict the generalisability of the findings too much.;This section builds a fence around the research findings which are additional to the limitations and key assumptions established in the previous section about definitions. For example, the explicit boundaries of the research problem described in Section 1.2 above should be noted again in this section and other boundaries should be clearly expressed. Other delimitations could be the industries chosen, the locations chosen, environmental factors, and variables that could not be controlled. In effect, the population about which findings are to be made, is outlined here. By the way, by definition, delimitations are within the control of the researcher and limitations are not. In most theses, the limitations caused specifically by the methodological methods chosen are placed in Chapter 3 or in Section 5.6 along with any other limitations.;In this section, the researcher is trying to forestall examiners criticisms, so justifications for these delimitations must be provided in the section. It would be wise to not mention that time andor resources were major influences on these delimitations of the research, for an examiner may think that the student should have chosen a research project that was more appropriate for these obvious limitations of any research. For example, if the population is restricted to one state rather than a nation, perhaps differences between states may be said to have caused just one state to be selected. No claims for the conclusions beyond these delimitations will be made, although implications of the findings beyond the delimitations may be made.;Incidentally, delimitations are sometimes called limitations in theses and is common in US theses. Strictly speaking, limitations are beyond the researchers control while delimitations are within his or her control. For example, a limitation may be that a very good sampling frame could not be found and a delimitation may be that the research was restricted to financial services industries because of their special nature that was appropriate to the research. The term of delimitation is suggested here as referring to the planned, justified scope of the study beyond which generalisation of the results was not intended.