38putting the pieces together to try to uncover a picture, but shows that some pieces are missing and so the complete picture cannot be known. Then Chapters 3 and 4 describe the hunt for the missing pieces and the matching together of a few newly found pieces. Finally, Chapter 5 returns to the puzzle, briefly summarising what the picture looked like at the end of Chapter 2 and then explaining how the new and the old pieces fit to make the whole picture clear.;Do remember that the introduction to Section 5.1 is longer than the introduction of other chapters, as the section above titled Links between chapters noted.;Findings for each research issue or proposition are summarised from Chapter 4 and explained within the context of this and prior research examined in Chapter 2 for example, with which of the researchers discussed in Chapter 2 does this research agree or disagree, and why? For each research issueproposition, the agreement or disagreement of the results of a numbered section in Chapter 4 with the literature should be made clear and the reason for disagreement thought through. For example, the disagreement might be because some previous research was done in Asia and this research was done in Australia. Disagreement suggests the PhD research is making a contribution to knowledge and this contribution of the research should be clearly developed. Each research issue or proposition would have its own subsection, that is, 5.2.1, 5.2.2 and so on, and each section will have a reference to the appropriate section of Chapter 4 so that the examiner can clearly see that the conclusions come from the findings in Chapter 4. Of course, each section will also have many references to the writers discussed in Chapter 2 because this chapters primary aim is to show how the findings in the previous chapter fit into the body of knowledge. A brief example of one of these discussions is;The final set of factors in the initial conceptual framework of this research illustrated in Figure 2.10 was the strategic objectives of the firm. The interaction between entry mode choice and strategic objectives has attracted considerable attention in the literature (Jones 1991 Anderson  Gatignon 1986 Hwang 1988 Hill et al, 1990). For example, Minor, Wu and Choi (1991) argue that entry mode choice is based on strategic objectives when considered in tandem with ...;This research had varied findings about these factors. Section 4.3.5s findings were that innovation learning and whether firms consider a global strategy, are unimportant. These findings are inconsistent with the literature. The reasons for this inconsistency appear to be the small size of the firms in this survey and their industry. Jones (1991) surveyed firms with turnovers above 1 million in the pharmaceutical industry, and Hwang (1988) surveyed... In contrast, Australian small jewellers are... Presumably, they are more entrepreneurial and have less at stake than larger firms and ...;Based on Section 5.2, implications of the research for furthering understanding of the research problem are explored. The section goes beyond the mere numbercrunching of Chapter 4 and incorporates qualitative findings about the research problem developed during the research, including those insights discovered during interviews in qualitative research which had never even been considered in the literature reviewed in Chapter 2. Again the contribution of the research to the body of knowledge should be clearly developed.