Another style rule for theses is that the word etc. is too imprecise to be used in a thesis, and that the use of adjectives and adverbs should be kept to bare minimum to avoid the impression of being imprecise and flowery. Furthermore, words such as this, these, those and it should not be left dangling  they should always refer to an object for example, This rule should be followed is preferred to This should be followed. Some supervisors also suggest that brackets should rarely be used in a thesis  if a comment is important enough to help answer the thesis research problem, then it should be added in a straightforward way and not be hidden within brackets as a minor concern to distract the examiner away from the research problem.;As well, definite and indefinite articles should be avoided where possible, especially in headings for example, Supervision of doctoral students is more taut and less presumptuous than The supervision of doctoral students. Paragraphs should be short as a rule of thumb, three to four paragraphs should start on each page if my preferred line spacing of 1.5 and Times Roman 12 point serif font is used, to provide adequate structure and complexity of thought on each page. (A line spacing of 2 and more than about three paragraphs per page make a thesis appear disjointed and flaky, and a sanserif font is not easy to read.) A final note of style is that margins should be those nominated by the university or those in Style Manual (Australian Government Publishing Service 2002) the left hand margin is usually set at 3 or 4 centimetres.;Chunkiness. The concept of a chunk can help summarise some of the discussion above. As shown at the start of the thesis in Section 1.2, the whole thesis is one big chunk of an idea. But each part of the thesis should be a chunky part of the whole thesis, with links to other parts. For a start, each chapter should have its own role within the thesis such as Chapter 2s identification of research issues about which data is collected in Chapter 3. Each chapter has section and subsection chunks with a numbering system that reflects their interrelationships (such as 3.2, 3.2.1 and 3.2.2). Then each subsection has chunks of paragraphs within it, sometimes indicated with runin headings.;Next there are individual paragraphs. These are almost always longer than one sentence and take up about one third of a page or so. Each paragraph usually have a linker word at the start such as Next or Furthermore. These linkers at the start of a paragraph lead the examiner from alreadydigested ideas into a new idea. Each paragraph deals with one idea that is introduced and summarised in a theme sentence near the start, for the start of a paragraph is a hot spot that the reader will normally concentrate upon (Lindsay 1995). Finally, each sentence has one small idea, with the most important aspect of the sentence presented at its start that is, do not waste the hot spot at the start of a sentence on a relatively unimportant phrase like As shown in Table 6, rather, place these unimportant phrases at the end of a sentence after a comma. Sentences also often have a linker word at the start such as However to guide the reader from the known content of the previous sentence into the new material in the sentence. If there is no linker, the reader will assume the new sentence leads directly from the previous sentence. In brief, the thesis should be a string of clear chunks of ideas.