The research problem theory should preferably relate to one academic discipline from which examiners will be selected, as noted above. However, there may be more than one parent theory for example, a thesis examining the research problem of marketing orientation might discuss two parent theories of marketing theory and strategic management. In other words, the literature review of a thesis tends to extend further beyond the boundaries of the research problem than it does in most other types of research. Nevertheless, the literature review should be focussed and should not contain theories that are not directly relevant to the research problem theory  these indirectly associated disciplines should be relegated to Section 5.4 of the thesis as areas for which the research has implications. In other words, only parent theories needed to develop a theoretical framework in the research problem theory are involved, not uncles, aunts, or other relatives.;The relationships between several of the concepts above are shown in Figure 3. In that figure, the literature review covers the parent theories and the research problem theory. Note that the research problem theory is only about the research problem. Of the total, possible aspects of the research problem, only some aspects are within the delimited scope described in Section 1.7, but the literature reviewed about the research problem theory usually covers all aspects of the research problem. That is, in Figure 3, some boundaries of the research problem are made explicit in Section 1.2 and all are made explicit in Section 1.7 this difference is shown by some but not all of the line around the boundaries of the delimited research problem in the figure being the same as the line around the research problem area. All boundaries of the research problem should have been justified in Section 1.7, as noted above.;Figure 3 also shows that some of the literature about the research problem theory will already provide some answers to parts of the research problem, but it is the gaps of unresearched or controversial parts of the research problem about which the research will collect data. That is, the statements of the research issues or propositions about these gaps are the ultimate goal of Chapter 2, and provide a focus for the data collection and analysis described in the next two chapters.;Classification models of the literature review and analytical models of the theoretical framework. Some judgement may be required to balance the need to focus on the research problem theory, and the need for a thesis to show familiarity with the literature of the parent theories. One way of balancing these two needs is to develop mind maps such as a new classification model of the body of knowledge showing how concepts can be grouped or clustered together according to schools of thought or themes, without necessarily considering relationships between groups (Figure 3 is an example). These concepts could be the section headings in the outline of the chapter that should precede the writing of the chapter (Zuber Skerritt  Knight 1986). The new classification model will begin to show that the students literature survey is constructively analytical rather than merely descriptive, for the rigour in a thesis should be predominantly at the upper levels of Bloom and Krathowls (1956) sixlevel hierarchy of educational objectives. Levels 1, 2 and 3 are mere knowledge, comprehension and application that every undergraduate should display. Levels 4, 5 and 6 are analysis, synthesis