A number of reasons account for this use of Likert scales. First, these scales have been found to communicate interval properties to the respondent, and therefore produce data that can be assumed to be intervally scaled (Madsen 1989 Schertzer  Kernan 1985). Second, in the marketing literature Likert scales are almost always treated as interval scales (for example, Kohli 1989).;Yet another example would be to show awareness of the controversy about the number of points in a Likert scale by referring to authorities discussions of the issue, like Armstrong (1985, p. 105) and Newman (1994, p. 153).;This issue of how much detail and what detail to put into the methodology chapter is not a clear cut one. The student has to steer a fine line between giving the examiners a tutorial about the methodology (which the examiners definitely do not need for the reasons noted above), and merely telling the story of what was done to collect the data and analyse it. That is, the thesis writer has to demonstrate research training and justify the steps undertaken but without boring the examiner. One way to steer the fine line is to frequently reference literature about the methodology and to describe what was done in the order and using the language of that literature. The following example shows how this could be done. The sentences are written in the past tense but clearly demonstrate that the writer is familiar with the methodology literature that is lavishly referenced;The fourth issue about this research design concerned sample design. Sample design involved the selection of a technique to choose elements from the population of interest and involved the choice of either probability or nonprobability design ( Emory  Cooper 1991 Frazer  Lawley 2000). Determination of sample design followed five steps synthesised from the literature that are discussed next (Malhotra et al. 1996 Smith 2000 Rubin 1996);The student must not only show that he or she knows the appropriate body of knowledge about procedures as noted above, but must also provide some evidence that the procedures have been followed. For example, dates of interviews or survey mailings should be provided. Appendices to the thesis should contain copies of instruments used and instruments referred to, and some examples of computer printouts however, well constructed tables of results in Chapter 4 should be adequate for the reader to determine correctness of analysis, and so all computer printouts do not need to be in the appendices (although they should be kept by the student just in case the examiner asks for them). Note that appendices should contain all information to which an intensely interested reader needs to refer a careful examiner should not be expected to go to a library or write to the students university to check points.;Details of the methodology are required whether a qualitative or quantitative research methodology is used (Yin 1989). Indeed, a qualitative thesis may contain even more details than a quantitative one, for a qualitative researcher may influence subjects more  for example, how subjects were chosen, how they answered, and how notes andor recordings were used. Moreover, the student should occasionally use I in the methodology chapter when a qualitative methodology is used in thesis, to describe what he or she actually did in the field, so as to reflect an awareness that the researcher cannot be independent of the field data. In deed, perhaps a qualitative researcher could briefly describe themselves in the validity and reliability section of this chapter, as a way of trying to make themselves and the reader aware of values that may