47text outside of brackets. Examples are (Larsen, Smith  Green 1987) and Larsen, Smith and Green (1987).;When referring to a work that has four or more authors, use only the first author and add et al., for example, (Carson et al. 2001) and Carson et al. (2001). In contrast, all authors have to be named every time if there are one, two or three of them.;The above principles of referencing are also used for internet sources. That is, the author or the title of the article or the sponsoring organisation is placed in the text, for example, Smith (1996, p. 2) and (The World in Cyberspace 1999 Hello and goodbye 2000 World Health Organisation 2000).;Sometimes newspapers or magazine articles need to be cited. If the author of the article is known, then the procedures above are used (for example, Keating 1999). If the author is not known, then the name of the publication and its date is used in the citation, for example, (The New Straits Times, 24 Jan., 2000, p.32).;By the way, personal communications are not placed in the list of references described below because the reader cannot retrieve them. Thus they are only referred to in the text, for example, (C Perry 2001, pers. comm., 2 May) and C. Perry (2001, pers. comm., 2 May). It may sometimes be helpful to note the organisation a person represents, as in (S Savieri Asian Defence Council 2000, pers. comm., 3 May);The full details of the references referred to in the citations above are given in the list of references at the end of the thesis, as shown in the following examples arranged in alphabetical order of type of source. Note that there are no brackets around the year, there is no full stop after an initial, and there is no space between two initials. As well, the volume and number of a journal are not capitalised. There is a space after each entry. Note that some examples in Style Manual (2002) do not have page numbers at the end of chapters from books, but it does note that is page numbers have to be added, they can be (Style manual 2002, p. 203. I strongly recommend that page numbers of chapters or papers in books and conference proceeding do have the page numbers at the end because people overseas who want to publish any paper or article of yours will probably want page numbers in the list of references of the published paper or article.