36claim that the pattern in the data does indeed exist. Finally, specific examples and quotations to further corroborate the existence of the pattern in the data, are presented. An brief example of this presentation of qualitative findings is;Most respondents thought shipping was not important because schedules were reliable (row 2 of Table 4.3). Thank goodness the unions are tame (A2). No worries  we have good port agents and shipping lines (B1).;Two considerations made it difficult to blend qualitative details and synthesised patterns in the data, within this chapter that is, blend the wood and the trees. The patterns in the data that explained why and how the world operates is the wood and was the primary concern of this chapter. However, details of the trees also had to be presented in this chapter to confirm the trustworthiness of the patterns described. First, because this research was an indepth investigation of a complex and underresearched area, this chapter had to be quite detailed in some parts of its analysis, for example, there are matrices for each type of finding (Miles and Huberman 1994) that show the results for each case. Secondly, the requirement for trustworthiness in qualitative research made it necessary to provide detailed quotations and other evidence for the patterns found in the data, together with the sources of the quotations. In brief, patterns had to be synthesised from the data without losing sight of the rich, qualitative sources on which they were based.;To draw these considerations together, this chapter is clearly structured around the three research issues and there are frequent summaries of the patterns of data being uncovered, with supporting quotations. In particular, the tables and figures are critical to following the patterns being uncovered in the data, for readers can gain an overall picture of the findings from them. In particular, Figure 4.9 summarises the findings examined throughout the whole chapter and so provides an overview of the whole chapter.;Whether the data is qualitative or quantitative, all patterns of results in Chapter 4 must be supported by the evidence unearthed by the procedures described in Chapter 3. That is, a reader should be able to check findings by looking at tables or figures. So each table or figure should be referred to in the body of the chapter, with the reason for its presence. As the example in the previous paragraph showed, a topic should be introduced in words and the main findings presented then the table or figure referred to and evidence from it should be introduced in one or two sentences and then the highlights of the table or figure should be discussed more fully, together with a brief description of what the reader will look for in the table or figure when he or she turns to it. In other words, a reader should not be expected to develop the links between the words in Chapter 4 and a table or figure by himself or herself. Indeed, the reader should be able to grasp the meaning by reading either the words or the figures without reference to the other.;When figures are used, the table of data used to construct the figure should be in an appendix. All tables and figures should have a number and title at the top and their source at the bottom, for example, Source analysis of survey data. If there no source is listed, the examiner will assume the researchers mind is the source, but a listing such as Source developed for this research from Chapter 2 might reinforce the originality of the students work. The title of a table or graph