Style As well as the structure discussed above, examiners also assess matters of style (Hansford  Maxwell 1993). Within each of the chapters of the thesis, the spelling, styles and formats of Style Manual (Australian Government Publishing Service 2002) and of Macquarie Dictionary should be followed scrupulously, so that the student uses consistent styles from the first draft and throughout the thesis for processes such as using bold type, emphasising with italics, indenting block quotations, using single and double inverted commas, making references, spaces before and after side headings and lists, and gender conventions. After all, the Style Manual will be the standard for later submissions to the Australian Research Council and to most journals published in Australia. Moreover, using the authoritative Style Manual provides a defensive shield against an examiner who may criticise the thesis from the viewpoint of his or her own idiosyncratic style. By the way, Peters (1995) may also be useful on style matters, for it elaborates on issues that Style Manual is sometimes too succinct about. A summary of main points about style and referencing in Australia is in appendix A.;In addition to usual style rules such as each paragraph having an early topic sentence, a thesis has some style rules of its own. For example, Chapter 1 is usually written in the present tense with references to literature in the past tense the rest of the thesis is written in the past tense because it concerns the research after it has been done, except for the findings in Chapter 5 which are presented in the present tense. More precisely for Chapters 2 and 3, schools of thought and procedural steps are written about using the present tense, and published researchers and the students own actions are written about using the past tense. For example The eclectic school has present several strands. Smith (1990) reported past that... and The first step in content analysis is present to decide on categories. The researcher selected past ten documents...;In addition, value judgements and words should not be used in the objective pursuit of truth that a thesis reports. For example, it is unfortunate, it is interesting, it is believed, and it is welcome are inappropriate. Although first person words such as I and my are now acceptable in a thesis (especially in Chapter 3 of a thesis within an interpretive paradigm), their use should be controlled  the student is a mere private in an army pursuing truth and so should not overrate his or her importance until their degree has been finally awarded. In other words, the student should always justify any decisions where his or her judgement was required (such as the number and type of industries surveyed and the number of points on a Likert scale), acknowledging the strengths and weaknesses of the options considered and always relying upon as many references as possible to support the decision made. That is, authorities should be used to back up any claim of the researcher, if possible. If the examiner wanted to read opinions, he or she could read letters to the editor of a newspaper.;Moreover, few if any authorities in the field should be called wrong, at the worst they might be called misleading after all, one of these authorities might be an examiner and have spent a decade or more developing his or her positions and so frontal attacks on those positions are likely to be easily repulsed. Indeed, the student should try to agree with the supervisor on a panel of likely people from which the university will select the thesis examiner so that only appropriate people are chosen. After all, a greengrocer should not examine meat products and an academic with a strong positivist background is unlikely to be an appropriate examiner of a