As noted above, the five chapter structure is primarily designed for theses in marketing or related fields using common methodologies such as structural equation modeling. However, some qualitative methodologies such as case studies and action research (Perry  ZuberSkerritt 1992 1994 Perry 1998) can fit into the structure. Details of how the case study or the action research project are presented in Chapter 3 and case study details or the detailed report of the action research project are placed in appendices. In theses using these relatively qualitative methodologies of case studies or action research, the analysis of data in Chapter 4 becomes a categorisation of data in the form of words, with information about each research issue collected together with some preliminary reflection about the information. That is, the thesis still has five chapters in total, with Chapter 4 having preliminary analysis of data and Chapter 5 containing all the sections described below.;Nevertheless, some methodologies may be difficult to fit into the structure. For example, grounded theory research may not place as much significance on Chapter 2s review of the literature and historical research may require different structures.;In brief, the five chaptersection structure has some limitations but it also has many benefits for students learning the basics of their research craft and beginning their research career, as well as for a busy supervisor who has had little training in research writing or supervision. The structure provides a starting point for understanding what a thesis should set out to achieve, and also provides a basis for communication between a student and his or her supervisor. The structure is not meant to be a straightjacket that inhibits a researchers creativity, for it merely provides a preliminary framework for reporting that research. Indeed, with this tested and proven structure, students can focus on being creative in their research and not dissipate their creative energies.;Moreover, with these guidelines for chapter content and construction, it is possible to plan a postgraduate research project. As a rough rule of thumb, the five chapters have these respective percentages of the thesis words 6, 34, 18, 22 and 20 percent. Using these approximate percentages, a candidate could plan the approximate time and pages for any chapter. For example, if a candidate plans to do a 50 000 or so word DBA thesis in 24 months, the planning pages and months for each chapter can be worked out along the lines shown in Table 1. These rule of thumb percentages are slightly different if a thesis has two stages of data collection rather than just the one stage that can be neatly described in a five chapter thesis. In this circumstance, Chapters 3 and 4 would be devoted to the two stages of methodology. Rule of thumb percentages for a six chapter thesis are about 6, 33, 11, 17, 20 and 13 percent. For example, a typical, 65 000 or so word PhD thesis with two methodologies of data collection done in 27 months might look like Table 2. These two tables are merely examples and are not templates for every thesis, because each research project must do whatever is required to solve its own, justified research problem. The tables measure pages from the start of Chapter 1 to the end of the final chapter and so they include tables and figures but do not include the table of contents, the list of references or the appendices. Note that some months have been added to direct percentage durations for the first and final chapters, to allow for starting and final drafting of the thesis. I have assumed that the margins, the font and the line spacing are those described below.