adjective and US is only an adjective.  Use a capital letter only at the start of a heading or the title of a figure and table, andthen use lower case for all the other words. More advice on presenting tables and figures is provided below.  Use a capital for one particular unit but all lower case for many, generic units, for;then use lower case for all the other words. More advice on presenting tables and figures is provided below.  Use a capital for one particular unit but all lower case for many, generic units, forexample, my University and many universities.  Write out numbers from one to nine in words, and larger numbers as numbers, for;example, my University and many universities.  Write out numbers from one to nine in words, and larger numbers as numbers, forexample, nine and 10. However, if you are comparing a number above 10 with a number below 10, present both of them as number, for example, 7 out of the 15 people were blind.  However, never use numbers at the start of a sentence. For example, do not start with;1998 was or 77 percent was instead, start with The year 1998 was or As much as 77 percent  Nevertheless, use numbers rather than words for parts of a document, and presentthem with a capital when referring to a particular part of the document, for example, Chapter 2 and Figure 6.1.  Occasionally use I or we when describing what you actually did, but do not use;them with a capital when referring to a particular part of the document, for example, Chapter 2 and Figure 6.1.  Occasionally use I or we when describing what you actually did, but do not usethem to present your own value judgements in phrases like I feel or I consider.  Do not use slangy contractions like dont or cant instead, write do not or;them to present your own value judgements in phrases like I feel or I consider.  Do not use slangy contractions like dont or cant instead, write do not orcannot.  Please do not use adjectives and adverbs because what they are essentially just value;cannot.  Please do not use adjectives and adverbs because what they are essentially just valuejudgements and if the examiner wanted to know about value judgments he or she would look at the letters to the Editor of a newspaper.  Use italics for emphasis very sparingly  as a usual maximum, italicise only one or;judgements and if the examiner wanted to know about value judgments he or she would look at the letters to the Editor of a newspaper.  Use italics for emphasis very sparingly  as a usual maximum, italicise only one ortwo words per one or two pages. Using italics too often will make them lose their impact. (This is not a thesis, so I have used italics here more often than I would in a thesis.)  A date is written as 12 May 2002, in that order and without a comma. The terms;two words per one or two pages. Using italics too often will make them lose their impact. (This is not a thesis, so I have used italics here more often than I would in a thesis.)  A date is written as 12 May 2002, in that order and without a comma. The termspm and am are written without full stops, for example, 12.15 am. For numbers, thousands do not need a comma but larger numbers should be presented with spaces instead of commas, for example, 5000 and 50 000 000.; Headings. Use reasonably long headings and titles of figures and tables  about 0.5 to;0.75 lines are usually required. By the way, the use of headings should be able to help the reader follow your pattern of argument. Thus, you could have a side heading at least every two or three pages, perhaps, and a runin heading every three to four paragraphs, say. (Headings. at the start of this item is an example of a runin heading, but it should have covered at least two or three paragraphs of material.); Use bullet points sparingly in academic writing, and only when the material in each pointcan expressed as a phrase or clause with a comma or a semicolon that is, do not put sentences as bullet points. This academic convention about bullet points exists because a thesis is written to be read carefully by thoughtful examiners in contrast, a consultants report with many bullet points is written to be read quickly by busy executives. (This list of bullet points is therefore inappropriate, I know, but I am not writing a thesis!). Do not