If one or more of the models developed in Chapter 2 have to be modified because of the research findings, then the modified model should be developed in Section 5.3 or 5.4, with the modifications clearly marked in bold on the figure. Indeed, development of a modified model of the classification or analytical models developed in Chapter 2 is an excellent summary of how the research has added to the body of knowledge, and is strongly recommended.;In brief, Sections 5.3 and 5.4 are the conclusion to the whole thesis (Phillips  Pugh 1987) and are the students complete answer to the research problem.;Practical implications for private sector managers are covered in Section 5.5.1 and implications for public sector analysts and managers are covered in Section 5.5.2. Needs for training or new government policies are often raised here. Examiners may be impressed if this section develops a checklist of procedures for managers which incorporates the research findings, and this may help to fulfill justification iv of Section 1.3.;Section 1.7 has previously outlined major delimitations of the research that were a deliberate part of the research (for example, industry boundaries to the research problem). This section discusses other limitations that became apparent during the progress of the research, for example, questionnaire results may indicate that age of respondents is a limitation. Sometimes this section is unnecessary. Indeed, do not make too much of any limitations, for too much discussion here will make the examiner think the research was poorly designed and any conclusions are not worth awarding a degree for.;This section should end with a sentence stating that that the limitations are acknowledge but they do not detract from the significance of the findings. Indeed, the section could begin with a brief statement of the strengths of the research, for example, the size of the sample and the unusual methodology. Then the section could discuss some limitations like the use of perceptions in data collection rather than figures, the use of a convenience sample and the use of crosssectional rather than longitudinal data. Finally, the section could end with a paragraph that the strengths of the study remain for the limitations o not detract from them but merely provide platforms for future research (which are addressed in the next section).;This section is optional and has the writers reflections on the methodology used. For example, it could discuss what parts were especially successful and what parts were especially difficult, what procedures had to be developed that were not previously described in the literature about the methodology, and if any of that literature was especially useful or misleading. The section normally takes up only about half a page or so.;This final section is written to help students and other researchers in selection and design of future research. Further research could refer to both topics and to methodologies or to both. A