 the text outlines the topics to be covered in each section before going into the details ofthose topics. Here is the example (adapted from McKinsy 1994, p. 4243);3.1.2 Why some joint initiatives work and others do not a side heading with numbers;While there is still much to learn about joint initiatives in Australia, our observations of highgrowth firms overseas and of Australias shipbuilders have provided insights into what works and what barriers are still to be overcome.this is what the whole of this Section 3.1 is about;There appear to be three necessary ingredients in successful joint initiatives a large andor expanding market, strong leadership and shared vision, and complementary interests and skill. each of these will be looked at in turn Physical proximity may also be important in joint initiatives other than those with customers, suppliers and RD providers.;Large andor expanding market. a runin heading to show that the first of the three ingredients is going to be discussed in the next three or so paragraphs The most successful joint initiatives among Australias highgrowth firms were often in industries with large or expanding markets  and for Australia that means export markets. A strong export orientation creates a common focus and the sense of a bigger pie that allows partners to work together. This common perspective is often absent when firms compete for a small domestic market. The shipbuilding and downstream chemical industries in Australia and abroad provide two contrasting examples of this. Norwegian shipbuilders;Complementary interests and skills. this is the third point  we have skipped the second point in this example, as shown by the three full stops, called an ellipsis, above It is not enough to simply get together  firms must have enough common ground to be useful to one another. Complementary interests and skills seem to be important, if obvious, ingredients of successful joint initiatives. Hunternet is an example of how a network of firms with diverse but complementary interests can become a force for innovation and growth.