13have found referees comments on articles submitted for publication in journals during their candidacy, have improved the quality of their thesis analysis (and publication has helped them get a job). Nevertheless, several supervisors suggest that it is preferable to concentrate on the special requirements of the thesis and adapt it for publication after the PhD has been awarded or while the student has temporary thesis writers block.;The thesis will have to go through many drafts (ZuberSkerritt  Knight 1986). The first draft will be started early in the candidature, be crafted after initial mindmapping and a tentative table of contents of a chapter and a section, through the right, creative side of the brain and will emphasise basic ideas without much concern for detail or precise language. Supervisors and other students should be involved in the review of these drafts because research has shown that good researchers require the collaboration of others to make their projects work, to get them to completion (Frost  Stablein 1992, p. 253), and that social isolation is the main reason for withdrawing from postgraduate study (Phillips  Conrad 1992). By the way, research has also shown that relying on just one supervisor can be dangerous (Conrad, Perry  ZuberSkerritt 1992 Phillips  Conrad 1992).;Indeed, by facilitating the creative first drafts of sections of a thesis, the relatively visible and structured process of this papers structure allows the student to be more creative and rigorous with the content of the thesis than he or she would otherwise be. After the first rough drafts, later drafts will be increasingly crafted through the left, analytical side of the brain and emphasise fine tuning of arguments, justification of positions and further evidence gathering from other research literature.;Section 1.1 outlines the broad field of study and then leads into the focus of the research problem. This section is short and aims to orient the readers and grasp their attention. In journal articles, the introduction has four stages (Swales 1984) establish the overall field, summarise previous research, indicate the research gap, and state the purpose of the article and outline it. However, in a thesis, these stages are spread through the whole of Chapter 1 and parts of Chapter 2, rather than in Section 1.1. Nevertheless, the first three stages could be borne in mind when structuring Section 1.1, with the following Section 1.2 providing the fourth stage. In graphical form, Section 1.1 is the triangle shown in Figure 2.;A thesis should be able to reference at least four or five writers in the first one or two paragraphs, to demonstrate from the start of the thesis that care has been taken to acknowledge and chart the depth and breadth of the existing body of knowledge. Most of the material in Section 1.1 is covered in more detail in later sections such as Section 1.3, and so these sections