iii relative neglect of the researchs methodologies by previous researchers (with references to Chapter 3 being required, with an acknowledgment that the methodology is justified there and is not simply used for the sake of novelty) andiv usefulness of potential applications of the researchs findings (this justification is based on the researchers initial assumptions, in contrast, Section 5.4 is a statement of the completed researchs usefulness).;These four sorts of justification could also be used to justify a research problem in other areas, with several paragraphs of Section 1.3 devoted to each.;Section 1.4 is an introductory overview of the methodology, and is placed here in Chapter 1 to satisfy the initial curiosity of the examiner. This section should refer to sections in Chapters 2 and 3 where the methodology is described and justified in far more detail.;That is, this section first describes the methodology in general terms, including a brief, one or two paragraph description of major statistical processes, for example, of regression. Then the section could refer to sections in Chapter 2 where methodology is discussed, and possibly justify the chosen methodology based upon the purpose of the research, and justify not using other techniques. For example, the choice of a mail survey rather than a telephone survey or case studies should be justified. Alternatively and preferably, these justifications for the methodology used could be left until the review of previous research in Chapter 2 and the start of Chapter 3. Details of the methodology such the sampling frame and the size of the sample are provided in Chapter 3 and not in Section 1.4.;In summary, this section merely helps to provide an overview of the research methodology, and can be perfunctory  two pages would be a maximum length. Because of the openness of thesis writing noted above, this section should also introduce the data analysis methods as well as the data collection methods and briefly summarise the findings of the data analysis.;Each chapter is briefly described in this section. (Incidentally, the student must use either report or thesis consistently.);Definitions adopted by researchers are often not uniform, so key and controversial terms are defined to establish positions taken in the PhD research. (The previous sentence could be used to begin this section). The term being defined should be in italics or in bold, and the format for presenting each of the definitions should be standard. Definitions should match the underlying assumptions of the research and students may need to justify some of their definitions. The