During the implementation phases of a RES project, the importance of risks changes. At an early stage, the project is dominated by different risks, i.e. administrative risks, social acceptance risks and policy design risks. At this stage, a large part of the projects fails (according to project developers 6080). Although the probability of failure is high, the impact is low as the invested capital at this stage is relatively low. On the other hand, these costs are usually fully borne by the project developers, which means that, for this specific type of stakeholder, the risk is reasonably high.;During the building phase, the probability of a failure decreases, but the invested costs and, thus, the impact increase rapidly. This means that the resulting risk, depending on the investments, can be significant for the project developer. This is why sudden policy changes can have a disastrous effect on the market.;The last phase of a RES project is the postsupport phase. When the support has been phased out, market design  regulatory risks become very relevant, as from that point onwards, a full integration to the market will be necessary. Over time, the relevance of technical risks also increases.;The cost of capital for onshore wind projects varies between Member States. The WACC (Weighted average Cost of Capital) is an important input parameter in project evaluations. As RES technologies such as onshore wind require high upfront investments costs, the WACC significantly influences the business case of such projects. According to the interviewed experts, the 2014 WACC for onshore wind projects varies massively, for example between 3.5 in Germany and 12 in Greece. In most NorthWestern Member States, WACC figures will be 7 or lower, providing a good financial basis for onshore wind. Eastern and Southern Member States show higher WACC figures. There the WACC ranges between 1012, resulting in increased expenses for tax payers and energy consumers.;The parameters of the WACC, cost of equity, and cost of debt show similar results. The cost of equity for onshore wind projects in 2014 ranges between 6 (Germany) and 15 or more (Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania and Slovenia). Western Member States generally show lower values (typically between 615), while higher figures are observed in Eastern countries (16 and more). An increased level of support can lead to lowering the risk perception of equity providers and subsequently to lower cost of equity and WACC.;The cost of debt varies between 1.8 in Germany and 12.6 in Greece. Germany shows the lowest results with values for cost of debt ranging between 1.8 and 3.2. A reason for the very low values could be the competition between banks many banks have come to consider wind energy projects as secure investments and underbid each other. The cost of debt currently features a falling tendency caused by postcrisis measures, resulting in declining EIB loans and EURIBOR.