Ireland had set a goal that in 2020 at least 16 of their energy consumption would come from renewable energy sources. In order to achieve these targets the Irish government has set as a target to generate 40 of electricity, 12 of heating and 10 of transport from renewable sources. Due to beneficial weather conditions, wind energy both on shore and off shore could contribute significantly to the achievements of these targets.;Despite the great wind potential in Ireland, investments in wind energy inherit significant risks according to our interviewee. It was mentioned that the chance of success of a wind project from the very start is only 10. In order to assess the risks, it is essential to separate the lifetime of a wind project into two periods the preconsent and the post consent period.;In the preconsent stage, the most important risks are grid access risks, planning risks and social acceptance risks. Due to these risks, many projects eventually fail and do not proceed further. In Ireland, according to our interviewee, grid access is by far the most important source of risk at this stage, as this can seriously delay a project. In the interview examples were mentioned of procedures that can last up to 1015 years. For this reason, developers are forced to apply for grid access even before they start planning the project. Apart from grid access, related planning rules, legal challenges and bureaucracy increase administrative risks, causing many projects to fail.;In the postconsent stage, policy design risks, market design and regulatory risks, technical  management risks and financing risks are important. Of these, policy design risks are by far the most important. Despite having a Feedin Tariff scheme in place, revisions of policies and the lack of clear rules increases the uncertainty and the costs. Another important risk category is market design and regulatory risks, where uncertainty on the compensation for curtailment is increasing the cost of equity for investments. Lack of commissioning engineers and large professional costs such as legal, technical and insurance service can increase the technical  management risks.;According to our interviewee the policies in Ireland are not effective in promoting renewable energy and realising Irelands extensive potential. In fact it was mentioned that the chosen policies introduce risks instead of removing them.