Technical  management risks refer to the availability of local knowledge and experience and to the maturity of the used technology. Uncertainties arise due to the lack of adequate resource assessment for future potential or the use of new technologies. The probability that a loss will incur due to insufficient local expertise, inability to operate, inadequate maintenance of the plants, lack of suitable industrial presence, and limitation of infrastructure are parameters that are included in technical  management risks.;To become operational, the RES projects should be connected to the electricity grid. This process includes the procedure to grant grid access, connection, operation and curtailment. The convenience of connecting is influenced by different factors, such as the capacity of the current grid, the possibilities for expansion, planned reinforcements and whether the connection regime allows for RES priority. If this is all wellregulated, new RES projects can be connected to the grid at low risk. However, in the case that the conditions are less convenient and grid connection lead times are long and the connection procedure is unclear, grid access risks can seriously affect the project. Often, these risks are due to an inadequate grid infrastructure for RES, suboptimal grid operation, lack of experience of the operator, and the legal relationship between grid operator and plant operator.;Support mechanisms are needed for renewable sources to be competitive, as there is still a cost gap between renewable and conventional energy technologies. Each Member State individually decides on its support mechanism. Policies aim to mitigate risks mainly related to electricity price and demand. The design characteristics of a policy indicates the degree of effectiveness of this risk mitigation. Uncertainties arise when the policy design does not account for all revenue risks, such as wind yield, demand and price fluctuations.;Market design  regulatory risks refer to the uncertainty regarding governmental energy strategy and power market deregulation and liberalisation. Fair and independent regulation implies that electricity market regulation safeguards that RESproducers have nondiscriminatory access to the market. Examples of riskincreasing barriers are legislation hindering participation of independent power producers (IPPs), incomplete unbundling, and a lack of an independent regulatory body.;Sudden policy change risks refers to risks associated with drastic and sudden changes in the RES strategy and the support scheme itself. In the worst case, this could imply a complete change or abandoning of the present RES support scheme or retroactive changes in the RES support scheme. Sudden policy change risks are defined as risks of unexpected, sudden or even retrospective changes to policies or policy design features.;The focus in this study is specifically on risks that are related to investments in RES. Although country risk are among the most pressing risks, they are not specifically related to RES investments. In the remainder of this study, the focus will therefore be on the other eight risk categories.;3.1.2 Influence of risks on investment decisions;Investors, depending on their risk preferences, will choose to invest in riskier or safer projects. As explained above, investors estimate these risks by setting discount rates. The height of these discount rates is important in the investment decision. With a high discount rate, only projects with a high IRR will be eligible for investments. This increases the costs for attracting capital, and thus the costs for renewable energy projects. If the discount rate is set too high, chances are that the IRR of renewable energy projects will not meet the discount rate, meaning that there will be no investments at all and renewable energy development will come to a standstill. Understanding how the risk of projects is determined and the how it can be influenced is therefore central to this study.