Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) shows the expected return required by investors in order to purchase the stock. From the formula, we can see two macroeconomic variables namely the MRP and the Riskfree rate and a company specific which is the Beta. All of the inputs are elaborated in the next sections, as well as the estimation method.;Based on this formula, the CoE for RES projects in the different Member States are calculated. This requires data from various sources. For this study, we used the following; As riskfree rate, the ten year government bond yields were used. Specifically the yield used is the average over the last one year.; After adjusting for debt to equity ratio and corporate tax rate, Beta falls into the range of 1.4  1.6.; Market Risk Premiums (MRPs) range from country to country. The lowest premium is in Germany where investors require 5.5 of equity premium and the highest in Lithuania, Bulgaria, Greece and Cyprus where investors require close to 8 or higher (Fernandez, et al., 2012).;Market risk premium is the excess return of the market portfolio against the riskfree interest rate. It is considered to be the most important input in the CAPM. Although a vast amount of literature exists, there is not a consensus for the exact amount of equity risk premium. The two most used methodologies is survey based approach Fernandez (2010) and estimation from historical data. The drawback of the survey approach is that it introduces biases mainly because the premiums are overly responsive and optimistic to recent market data (Ilmanen, 2003). On the other hand, surveys reflect practitioners opinion apart from solely relying on academic estimates. According to Fernandez (2010), practitioners tend to estimate better the premiums realised while academics in contrast are very inconsistent in their opinions. Estimations of the equity risk premium from historical data rely on the assumption that the past is representative of the future which is not necessarily true in practice.;MRP values obtained from survey by Fernandez et. al.