These policies address three types of risk the price risk due to varying market prices, the volume risk due to forecasting and marketing of the generated electricity, and cost risks because of the penalties. The expected degree of risk exposure associated with the different policy designs is illustrated in Figure 178. The yellow field of each policy design indicates the electricity market prices (vertical) over time (horizontal) and the blue fields the feedin tariff or the premium, which is paid on top of the market price. The red field represents unplanned expenditures in case of a delayed project completion (penalties).;Sliding feedin premium (FIPs) In this policy scheme, a feedin premium is determined upfront and reflects the minimum revenue that RES power producers will receive for their electricity. Part of this revenue is generated through selling electricity on the market (yellow area in Figure 18). The premium is paid on top of the market price. If the market price is lower than the strike price, RES producers will receive a premium to compensate for the difference. In case the market price exceeds the strike price, no premium will be paid. The sliding FIP determines the volume risk exposure as generators have to forecast and market their generated electricity. Depending on the special design of the strike price there might also be a small price risk.;Sliding feedin premium  No premium for negative prices (FIPs neg) The design of this policy scheme is identical to the above case (FIPs), except for the case that negative electricity wholesale market prices occur. In that case, no premium will be paid to the RES power producers. This policy affects the level and variation of returns.;Fixed feedin premium (FIPf) In this policy scheme, the premium is independent from the market price. The premium is a constant payment in addition to the market price realised at the wholesale market. Hence, the variation in returns strongly depends on the market price variations.;Sliding feedin premium  Tender procedures (FIPs tender) In this case, the premium is obtained via a tender procedure. The feedin premium is based on the winning bid. The policy scheme used during operation is a sliding feedin Premium, but it includes penalty payments if the start of the plant operation is delayed (delay 6 or 12 months penalty  5 to 10 of investment volume).;Feedin tariff (FIT) RES producers will receive a fixed, i.e. constant, tariff over the lifetime of the RES project independently from the electricity wholesale market price. They deliver their electricity to distributors and are not obliged to market it.