According to one interviewee, the level of the System Marginal Price (SMP) could be another risk component, especially for RES producers trading their energy into the market. This could act as a future long term risk element as renewable energy power plants are currently nondispatchable and have priority access to the grid in Greece. Another interview participant mentioned that a possible additional risk category could be the ambitiousness of EU policy related to RES energy targets set for the extended deployment of clean energy technologies.;Interviewees did score the effectiveness38 of Greece policies to decrease investment risks with a score of 2 (n2). The extraordinary tax contribution, the delay in reduction of feed in tariff and the current financial situation of Greece are some of the negative factors that mainly affect the investment risk in the renewable energy sector.;In more detail, during the past five years, the main critical measure influencing the national energy system was the adoption of the Law N.4254 (New Deal). This specific law has imposed both positive and negative effects. On the one hand, a retroactive reduction of the FIT level for PV power plants has initially led to an increase of the risk in RES investments. Nevertheless, it was also mentioned that the new tariff scheme has reduced the investment risk, for new projects, along with the expected return on investments (ROI) and contributed to remain safe the investment environment in the national RES sector, where, in parallel, the electricity deficit account has showed a considerable decrease.;Some other policy actions that resulted in an increase of the investment risk are the imposed taxes to RES producers and the absence of efficient liberalisation of the energy market, which constitute a markets regulation malfunction. Nevertheless, one interviewee expressed his opposition to the level of impact of taxation on the investment risk as he mentioned that the tax regime has even become more attractive during the last two years.;Finally, the transition to premium and auctioning schemes, at an EU wide level, might result in a more risky environment for RES producers due to the transition to unfamiliar support mechanisms and as the remuneration level may not be guaranteed, mainly for the case of a fixed premium scheme. Regarding the development of PV plants, constraints of further development have been also imposed. Specifically, an upper annual limit of 200MW and 0.5MW per power plant has been set for this specific technology. Additionally, net metering system is implemented only for PV systems and mainly for small units.