Barrier research The RESframe barrier database comprises all barriers from the three renewable energy sectors (electricity, heating  cooling and transport) which have been reported through an interactive online tool (reframe.eu) from local stakeholders in the EU28 Member States. Furthermore, these results were verified through backup research and expert interviews conducted by eclareon. Severity and Spread When reporting a barrier, stakeholders have to select which particular RES technologies are affected by this exact barrier and are then asked to rate these barriers on a scale from 1 to 5 according to their severity (the effects of the identified barrier on the further development of installations of the particular technology) and their spread (the share of installations which are affected by the identified barrier).  Risk categorisation Only barriers of wind energy were taken into account. Furthermore, only those barriers which have either an uncertain occurrence or an uncertain outcome were considered risks. Subsequently, these risks were grouped into the following eight risk categories social acceptance risks, administrative risks, financing risks, technical  management risks, grid access risks, policy design risks, market design  regulatory risks and sudden policy change risks. Development of a risk index Based on the gathered data, eclareon developed a consistent risk index including the normalised values for severity and spread as well as further objective criteria. With the help of this risk index, detailed statistics can be compiled per Member State, per energy sector, per RES technology and per risk category.;In August 2014, the RESframe database gathered a total of 772 single national barriers, of which 413 were reported for the electricity sector, 197 for the heating  cooling sector and 159 for the transport sector. From these 413 barriers for the electricity sector, 227 can be considered risks for the wind energy sectors.;Overall, a total of 141 stakeholders (national industry associations, project developers, financial institutions, policymakers, etc.) were registered in the database and have provided input on the barriers in their countries.;The results were then validated by conducting interviews13 with experts from all Member States. Over 80 equity providers, project developers and bankers were approached. The;The results were then validated by conducting interviews13 with experts from all Member States. Over 80 equity providers, project developers and bankers were approached. Thegoals of the interviews were as follows