Policies In order to reduce the cost of capital  and, hence, the overall level of required policy support  policies typically may address the level of the expected return andor the standard deviation in the expected return. Both aspects are crucial for deciding on RES investment.;Policies that bridge the finance gap, or provide even higher support through (e.g. through high feedin tariffs or premiums), will increase the project return which will lead to more RES investments at lower cost of capital. On the other hand, the net effect may result in higher overall levels of policy support.; Reduced revenue risk by using contracts for difference instead of fixed premium systems In case of the sliding premium or contract for difference (CfD), the premium is a function of the electricity price. This way plant operators of RESE are not exposed to the overall risk of the electricity market price. At the same time, the benefits in terms of market integration of renewable energies is the same as for fixed premium models. Furthermore, sliding premium systems also reduce the market design  regulatory risk of overcompensating RES generators. Therefore sliding premium systems seem to be the preferred option. Consequently, six Member States, which have intensely discussed the optimal design of feedin premium systems (Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, the Netherland and UK), use this design option.; Reduce compliance risk by a careful tender design Tender schemes need to assure compliance by the implementation of financial and nonfinancial prequalification requirements and penalties. Finding the proper balance between prequalification needs and penalties on the one hand and between financial and nonfinancial obligations on the other hand, can help reduce investment risks.; Flexibilitybanking Certain support instruments cap the amount of subsidy per year (e.g. only to a certain number of fullload hours). If energy production stays under this cap (e.g. through a lower wind resource in a particular year), followed by a year with higher yield, this will result in a net loss of income of the project if no banking is allowed. Banking (and similar flexible instruments, like variable investment tax deduction, tax loss carry backforward) can improve the financial performance of a project and reduce risks.