Description To become operational, the renewable electricity projects should be connected to the electricity grid. This process includes the procedure to grant grid access, connection, operation and curtailment. Any uncertainties in these procedures will result in higher uncertainties in project returns and, hence, higher cost of capital.;Project lifecycle impacts Grid access risks will be addressed before financial closure. However, they will only materialise during the operations phase of the project.;Policies Governments and regulators play an important role in providing clarity on procedures and processes with regard to grid extension (plans), grid access, and on liabilities and compensation in case of delayed or interrupted access or curtailment. These interfaces are of crucial importance to financiers. Compensation schemes, especially, can reduce this risk, but they need to be welldesigned and defined. For instance, an objective and realistic method should be available to determine the lost production and lost returns in case of delayed or interrupted grid access.;Description Government interventions are needed to correct market failures andor support innovative technologies that are not yet mature. Support instrument aim at bridging the finance gap between market prices and renewable energy production costs. The mere fact that renewables depend on government support is a risk factor (see sudden policy change risks). On top of that, the design of the policy support has particular implications for the risk profile of a project. Some policy instruments entail a higher exposure to market design  regulatory risks (e.g. quota obligation schemes) than others (e.g. feedin tariff), resulting  in general  in higher risk premiums. However, specific instrument design may affect the degree of risk exposure.;Project lifecycle impacts Policy design risk affects the operations stage of a project. Most RES technologies have high capital expenditures (CAPEX) and require relative long periods (e.g. 1020 year) to recover these CAPEX at an acceptable return and repay any debt to lenders with an interest. The risk of any changes in project returns directly affects the risk premium for key financial parameters.;Risk strategy Most policy support instruments apply a risk transfer strategy. By providing (partial) security of returns, governments can reduce the risk in the operations phase significantly.