In Europe, RES investments have been heterogeneous in terms of country coverage and technology coverage, for example, for wind power and PV. To reach the 2020 RES target and continue RES deployment beyond 2020, the EU will need to increase the level of investments by maintaining the investment rate in the current markets (countries and technologies with high investment rates) and tap into undeveloped markets (countries and technologies with potentials, but few investments so far). Past research shows that the level of financial support for RES investments significantly differs among EU Member States. But, high support levels do not always lead to an abundance of investments and strong growth, as there are policyrelated risks, but also risks related to the presence of noneconomic barriers (e.g. permits and authorization procedures, access to the grid, relationship with system operators). Moreover, general risks, such as country risks (e.g. country creditworthiness rating, country attractiveness index), general political instability (e.g. frequent change of governments), and the risks related to the preparedness openness of the electricity market to integrate renewable electricity (e.g. market structure and policy design risks) impact the level of RES investments (Boie, et al., 2015).;This report will not only address and assess policyrelated risks, it will also contribute to policy design recommendations, thereby reducing riskrelated costs for targeted RES deployment. To reach this goal, information on the linkage between policies, risks and costs are necessary. In literature, different aspects and risks related to RES policy schemes have been discussed, but impacts of policy designs on risks have hardly been quantified, as neither the link between policies and risk is properly established nor the risks are assessed. This report addresses these challenges by conducting a survey linking policies with risks.;5.2.1 Discussion on policies, risks and cost of capital in literature;To attract capital for RES investment, a minimum rate of return is necessary. The minimum rate of return is called financing costs, and can be defined as the expected rate of return demanded by investors in common stocks or other securities subject to the same risks as the project (Brealy, et al., 2008). This definition includes three concepts;1. The opportunity cost concept. 2. The capital market mechanism. 3. The relation between expected return and uncertainty.