Based on the responses of the interviewees, the three most important risk components are policy design, Financing and social acceptance risk. The extracted interview results align with the model estimations. Regarding the social acceptance risk, the majority of the energy experts indicated that it constitutes a critical risk component and has lower values for PV investments than onshore wind energy plants (e.g. visual disturbance of landscape perception).;Moreover, some of the interviewees assumed that its value is even higher than suggested in the model. Another critical risk component in RES investments is grid access. For large scale RES projects (i.e. onshore wind), grid access risk might increase compared to small scale installations, as high penetration of RES power plants into the national electricity grid might require additional actions and improvements of the existing grid infrastructure (e.g. high voltage overhead lines, high and medium voltage substations, submarine interconnections). Other risk categories (administrative, sudden policy change and market design  regulatory risks) exert some influence on RES investments. Finally, technical  management risk is characterised as the least important risk component and is not taken into consideration in RES investment decisions.;Some interviewees also stated that policy design, market design and regulatory and sudden policy change risks are considered as one single risk category in their investment decisions. In addition, based on the feedback of one expert, the values of cost of equity and WACC may be different between different project stages (planning, construction, operation) as different risk components occur and play a more crucial role. For example, social acceptance and financing risks occur at the planning phase but during the construction and operation stages, these may be very limited. For the case of offshore wind projects, experience and knowledge are missing in Greece, as no project of this technology is currently operating.;The colours indicate risk categories that have a different ranking in the model results and the interview results. Each risk has its own colour code.