1. Providing the theoretical background to identify renewable energy investment riskcategories. This helps us gain insight into the perspective of an investor.;2. Constructing a theoretical model to estimate the cost of equity, cost of debt andcost of capital. This helps us gain insight into the perspective of a project developer.;3. The evaluation of the model by interviews. 4. The creation of the country risk profiles.;Investments and risks are inextricably linked to each other. Investment risks refer to the probability of factors occurring that can influence the return on investment. The probability of these factors occurring and their impact determine the scale of risk. These two aspects form the basis of risk perception. Prior to their decision, investors make an estimation of the factors that can influence their investments. However, not all factors are known upfront or it might not be possible to estimate their probability. This will add uncertainty to the investment decision. If uncertainty grows, investors will become more reluctant to invest. The second aspect relates to the impact of risks. For some risks, it is quite certain that they will occur, but as long as the impact is not substantial, it will not have a large effect on the investors. It is therefore the combination of probabilityuncertainty and effectimpact that will determine how much risk is perceived by investors.;To estimate whether an investment is financially viable, investors will calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) based on the estimated future income and expenses of the investments. An important factor in this calculation is the Internal Rate of Return (IRR). In order to be profitable, the NPV should be positive. The IRR that is needed to obtain this positive NPV reflects the return investors will receive on their investment. To decide whether the investment is financially interesting, the resulting IRR is compared to a hurdle rate or discount rate. If the IRR exceeds the discount rate, investments are regarded as financially viable6. This tradeoff between risk and return is the basic framework for financial decision making. Additionally, the size of the losses is an important aspect in the decision making.