Different proxies can be used to represent the riskfree rate. Some examples are the US treasury zero coupon bonds, German Bunds as well as the LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), the zero Swap (Libor) curve or the OIS (overnight indexed swap). Practitioners typically use US or German government bonds as they are considered not to bear any credit risk and liquidity risk. Furthermore, it is common among practitioners to choose longterm bonds when financing a project so as to match the projected period of cash flows, providing a reliable approximation of a riskfree rate. Based on a study by Deloitte (2013), there are two different approaches to estimate the cost of equity (i) The conditional where the country risk is incorporated in the Market Risk Premium and;Different proxies can be used to represent the riskfree rate. Some examples are the US treasury zero coupon bonds, German Bunds as well as the LIBOR (London interbank offered rate), the zero Swap (Libor) curve or the OIS (overnight indexed swap). Practitioners typically use US or German government bonds as they are considered not to bear any credit risk and liquidity risk. Furthermore, it is common among practitioners to choose longterm bonds when financing a project so as to match the projected period of cash flows, providing a reliable approximation of a riskfree rate. Based on a study by Deloitte (2013), there are two different approaches to estimate the cost of equity (i) The conditional where the country risk is incorporated in the Market Risk Premium andthe riskfree rate is the real riskfree rate (e.g. German government bonds);In this study we choose to apply the unconditional approach. By using yields of the local long term bonds an approximation of the country risk is included. Furthermore, the choice of the riskfree rate is consistent with the MRP used. (Fernandez, et al., 2013) In his survey provides values for the riskfree rate, which vary from country to country. Concluding, as a proxy for the riskfree rate, we use the yearly average yield of the 10 year government bond of every country. In Table 6 an overview of these rates are provided for all EU MS.