1. First a representative sample of listed firms was collected. In total there are 52 companies listed in European stock markets and also in renewable energy indices. These indices are RENIXX World, ALTEX Global, Ardour Global Alternative Energy IndexSM, DAXglobal Alternative Energy Index, Italian Renewable Energy Index, and ISE Global Wind Energy. Altex Global index includes only pure play companies (companies that have or very close to single business focus). The rest of the indices include companies that achieve 50 percent of their revenues in the renewable energy industry. Most of the companies operate in the wind and solar energy segment. See ANNEX A for the entire list of companies.;2. For every firm regression Betas were obtained using daily and monthly return observations for different time periods (5 3 1 year and 6  3 months for daily observations and 5432 years for monthly observations). The values of Betas were statistically evaluated to test their explanatory value (R2) and statistical significance (tstatistic and pvalue). As mentioned above the index used for market proxy was the MSCI ALL CAP. Daily and monthly prices of the stocks and the index as well as debt to equity ratio and market capitalization of every company were collected from Thomson Reuters Database.;3. All Betas that were statistically significant were averaged and unlevered using Hamadas equation. The debt to equity ratio used was the average ratio of the companies used as suggested by (Damodaran, 1999).;4. In total nine different Betas were obtained. Our evaluation of which to use was based on the literature and also on statistical evaluation. Monthly returns were preferred over daily returns to avoid the illiquidity problem that would underestimate our Beta. Also the R2 of daily returns was lower than monthly indicating lower explanatory power. From the monthly we chose five and four years results as they had the lowest standard error compared to three and two years. Also, the longer periods had more results statistically significant increasing our sample and subsequently decreasing substantially the standard error.;5. The two unlevered Betas were finally relevered again to the target debt to equity ratio which is 7030. For every country we obtained a different Beta as the corporate tax rate changes.;6. As a final step to crosscheck our results we estimated again the Beta using a subsample of the original. Companies that operate only into the wind and solar sector were included. The new Beta had no significant difference from the one obtained using the full sample.