In some countries, the values for the cost of debt were found to be substantially higher than in the model results (e.g. Romania, Bulgaria, Italy and Spain). It is difficult to assess, for each individual example, whether the increase of rates is due to specific renewable energy policies or due to the general economic situation or to a lack of competition between national banks. In any case, it sheds a light on a growing gap within Europe between Northern European countries that benefit from lower costs of debt and Southern European countries that do not. Across Europe, the lower cost of debt values are found in Northern Member States (up to 6), while the Southern countries show values of 7 and up. According to investors, the main factors for the cost of debt value are the general country risk, the specific renewable investment risks and also the competition between debtors.;In 201423, the markets in Germany and Denmark allowed a debt share reaching, or even surpassing, 80. This enabled developers in these markets to benefit from lower cost of debts, as they were able to use a very high leverage. Investors in SouthEastern Europe had to provide up to 50 of their investment budget through equity financing. This drove up the costs for financing onshore wind energy plants and often made financing of projects impossible. A debt share below 70 (ranging from 5065) was found in almost a third of all EU markets, which illustrates the perceived risks for onshore wind investments in many EU Member States.;Our analysis based on the overall country survey and comparison does not show an obvious link between the choice of a particular support scheme and a high or low WACCvalue markets with a quota system, such as Belgium, can still reach a low WACCvalue and in some markets offering a feedin tariff, the capital costs can be very high. However, it is important to take two factors into account The first one is the specific design of the support scheme. Belgium, for example, offers a favourable minimum price for green certificates so that many risks are balanced out. The second factor is the country specific risk. Many markets still struggle with the aftermath of the financial crises.;Germany has the lowest weighted average cost of capital in the EU28, with a value of 3.54.5 for onshore wind energy plants. The other extremes in the EU are Croatia and Greece where circumstances are less favourable, showing WACCvalues that are up to three times as high as in Germany. Nevertheless, policy design has an impact on WACC as well.