Finally, the opinion on sudden policy changes differs among the interviewees. For instance it is suggested that policy changes can influence the risk of a project. One interviewee mentioned that even the announcement of a change could create unrest between investors, despite whether it would improve or not the investment environment. As an example, the change of the regime from Renewable obligation to Contracts for difference regime has triggered a turbulence in the market and most investors try to obtain permits as soon as possible with the old regime. On the other hand, a different opinion mentions that under the CFD regime policy changes will not matter much.;The interviewees indicated some risk categories that are missing from the assessment. These risks are revenue risk which is the variability in the production of electricity and the ability to sell it. Off taker risk which is the uncertainty caused by the low creditworthiness of the offtaker. The low creditworthiness could result in a default, which means that the offtaker will not be able to purchase the agreed amount of electricity, exposing the producer to uncertainty. Finally planning risk is missing which is regarded as uncertainty caused by the long time lines of permitting. This delay can increase the costs of the project during operational phase. In our model planning risks are represented by administrative and social acceptance risks.;Over the last five years the biggest change made in the policy regime is the transition from Renewable Obligation scheme to Contract for Difference scheme. This transition was commented by all interviewees. Overall, the interviewees acknowledge that with the CFD regime there is an effort to make investments in renewable energy safer. In terms of risks, the operating phase will become safer for the investors under the CFD regime, due to three reasons. Firstly, cash flows in the operating phase will be much more certain. Secondly, as the UK government will become the counterparty under the CFD, counterparty risk will be reduced. It is expected that the reduction of the counterparty risk will make it easier to acquire senior debt. Finally, it is expected that there will be a reduction of the pressure on support mechanisms, as CFD regimes will allow competitive prices.;On the other hand, CFD regime introduces more risk in the development phase. This is due to the uncertainty regarding the unclear design of the mechanism and the procedures required to obtain a contract. Hence the concern of the developers is not only the concession of the project but also the uncertainty of getting an approval for a CFD contract.;There is a common agreement among the interviewees that the new regime is going to have a significant impact on the investment landscape. However, they still cannot forecast the direction of this change.