The two risks that were mentioned by both interviewees were the grid access risk and the administrative risk. However, with regard to the impact of the grid access risk, opinions were divided one interviewee mentioned that most grid connection issues were clarified with the grid operator before the beginning of the project, while for the other, the obtaining of the grid connection permit is the highest risk in Austria. The latter depends partly on the municipality  if other RES projects have already been realised in the past, the municipality will be more open to new RES projects. The same interviewee pointed out that the impact of administrative risks also depended on the municipality.;For one interviewee, the highest risk in Austria was the market and regulatory risk, as the framework conditions may change during the projects lifecycle. This was especially due to the fact that feedin tariffs in Austria are only guaranteed for a period of thirteen years. Since market tariffs are much lower than the provided feedin tariffs, this constitutes a certain risk for investors. The other interviewee had a different opinion, mentioning that there could be some issues after the guaranteed support expires, but did not perceive this risk as very pressing.;In summary, the impact of the above mentioned risk categories highly depends on the implementation phase of the project. While the grid access risk can be high in the inception phase, the market and regulatory risk can be very important in the postsupport phase.;Both interviewees agreed that the social acceptance risk only plays a minor role in Austria. In the past, there have been several local referendums on new wind energy projects. However, if these referendums were in favour of RES, the public opposition accepted this decision, and stopped protesting.; This risk was not mentioned during the interviews (n2). The colours indicate risk categories that have a different ranking in the model results and the interview results. Each risk has its own colour code.