This section is dedicated to provide the quantitative underpinning of previously discussed findings and recommendations on improving financing conditions across the EU. By use of TU Wiens GreenX model, a quantitative analysis is conducted that indicates the impact of changes in WACC conditions.;GreenX is an energy system model that offers a detailed representation of RES potentials and related technologies in Europe and in neighbouring countries. It aims at indicating consequences of RES policy choices in a realworld energy policy context. The model simulates technologyspecific RES deployment by country on a yearly basis, in the time span up to 2050, taking into account the impact of dedicated support schemes as well as economic and noneconomic framework conditions (e.g. regulatory and societal constraints).;Moreover, the model allows for an appropriate representation of financing conditions and of the related impact on investors risk. This, in turn, allows conducting indepth analyses of future RES deployment and corresponding costs, expenditures and benefits arising from the preconditioned policy choices on country, sector and technology level.; Two distinct RES policy pathways are used, i.e. a businessasusual (BAU) scenario that reflects the currently implemented RES policy framework and where noneconomic barriers that limit the uptake of RES technologies in various countries are assumed to prevail, and, alternatively, an ideal policy world of strengthened national RES policies (SNP), assuming a strengthening of policy instruments in accordance with binding 2020 and 2030 RES targets together with a rapid mitigation of noneconomic barriers.; Both overall RES policy pathways are combined with the two WACC worlds  i.e. real and ideal WACC conditions as thoroughly assessed and discussed in the remainder of this report. For the calculation of the ideal WACC the assumption was taken that, in all MS, the same cost of equity as for the best in class (i.e. Germany) is applicable. The cost of debt was kept at the country specific level. This approach leads to a significant reduction of the WACC from 8.3 to 5.9 on EU28 average. Concerning the transition period, in the ideal WACC case, the assumption is taken that gradual improvements in financing conditions materialise in forthcoming years up to 2020, forming a level playing field for wind onshore investments across the EU in the period post 2020.