Moreover, a distribution of the average cost of debt is also provided for all categories of industry. Based on this report, the average cost of debt, before corporate taxes, is equal to 4.7, for the case of Energy  Natural Resources, compared to the total average of 5.6 of all examined sectors of activity.;Based on the study of IPART (2013), the cost of debt is equal to the nominal riskfree rate plus a debt margin. For the calculation of the debt margin, there are available two different approaches, using current market data and longterm averages, respectively. For the case of the riskfree rate, the 1st approach uses the 40day average of tenyear Common wealth government bond yield and the 2nd uses the tenyear average of the tenyear Common wealth government bond yield. About the debt margin, the sevenyear Bloomberg fair value curve and the tenyear average of sevenyear Bloomberg fair value curve, for the two different approaches, respectively. At last, an allowance of 12.5 basis points for debt raising costs is added to the cost of debt.;Different studies use a range of different values for the case of the debt margincost of debt. Grant Thornton (2012) utilised a nominal cost of debt around 8.5 to 9.0. This range was grounded on the weighted average interest rates on credit outstanding for large and small businesses over the last twelve months as published by RBA and current cost of debt of the company being valued. Grant Thornton (2012) used a nominal cost of debt of 12 according to discussions with the management sector of the company being valued. Ernst  Young (2012) assumed a nominal pretax cost of debt of 6.1. They considered the margin implicit in corporate bond yields over government bond yields and the debt ratings of comparable companies.;Summarising the two approaches presented above, the cost of debt is dependent on three elements, the riskfree rate, the project spread and the country risk component. While the underlying assumption is the same in both approaches, although, the inputs change. The riskfree rate is estimated by using the German bond as a proxy in the first and by the swap curve in the second. Also, two different approximations for the country premium were taken into account.;In the first case, the country premium is considered to be equal to the respective credit default swap while in the second equal it is to the difference of the tenyear government bond yields. These two approaches result in a range of the cost of debt rather than in a point estimate. The following graph depicts the cost of debt for all EU Member States using both approaches for onshore wind projects.