The figure above shows the development of a RES project distinguishing three phases7 project planning, construction and operation (Enzensberger, et al., 2003). At every phase, the project is influenced by different risks (Breitschopf  Pudlik, 2013). Social and administrative risks occur in the planning phase, technical  management risks in the construction and operation phases, and finally, grid access, policy and market design  regulatory risks during operation. Financing risks as well as grid access and sudden policy change risks influence the project in all phases.;Country risks refer to a set of factors that can adversely affect the profits of all investments in a country. These factors include political stability, level of corruption, economic development, legal system and exchange rate fluctuations. Although it constitutes an important risk factor, there is no uniform way to quantify it. Therefore, we use sovereign debt rating to reflect country risks and compare countries with each other.;Lack of social acceptability of renewable energy investments can cause investment risks. Mostly, this is related to negative impacts on RES installations from NIMBY (NotInMy Backyard) effects, but it can also depend on whether local communities benefit from the project or the lack of awareness on the positive effects of renewable energy. This can be contradictory as well while local communities could be in favour of the benefits derived from sustainable energy, they are opposed to wind farm installations close to their residence. Moreover, resistance could arise due to increasing costs of RES paid by final consumers. Overall, social acceptance risks are defined as risks of refusal of RES installations by (a part of) civil society.;In order to construct and operate a power plant, developers must obtain several permits. The total time required to obtain these is referred to as administrative lead time. Among the Member States, administrative procedures can vary depending on the complexity and time required to get permits and licences8. For instance, as reported by EWEA (2010) administrative lead times to obtain permits can vary significantly, depending on the country and the project, ranging from 2 to 154 months. Increased lead times could be due to the absence of clear, structured procedures and mechanisms, but also to corruption. Additionally for offshore wind, factors that increase lead time are the lack of experience and of communication with other sea users (EWEA. 2010). Administrative risks are defined as investment risks related to approval needed from the authorities.;The infrastructure required to generate power from renewable sources is capital intensive. For renewable energy, almost all investments take place in the first stage of development. This requires the availability of capital such as equity, but also public financing support such as grants and soft loans enabling investments in the Member States. If this is not available, this can lead to capital scarcity. Main reasons for capital scarcity are underdeveloped and unhealthy local financial sector or global financial distress. Furthermore, limited experience with renewable energy projects combined with tighter bank regulations (Basel III) could result in inability of developers to finance their projects. Risks that arise from the scarcity of available capital, are called financing risks.;7 Decommissioning is not included here, as (discounted) costs and risks during this phase are typically negligible for RES. 8 For more information, please refer to the following websites PV LEGAL (httpwww.pvlegal.eunlhome.html), PV GRID (httpwww.pvgrid.euhome.html) and wind barriers (www.windbarriers.eu)