Certainty in revenues due to guaranteed feedin or nonfluctuatingremunerations decrease cost of capital To better understand and capture the impact of RE policy design on cost of capital, a survey has been conducted with a limited number of respondents. The survey results are indicative, but clear a policy design that exposes investorsoperators to no or low volume and price risks (such as the FIT), reduces cost of capital by about 100 bp. This is due to the fact that, in cases of lower risk for investorsoperators, a lower ROE and equity share is accepted. And lower cost of capital would lead to lower costs of RES projects and potentially to an increased number of projects being realised. Hence, the deployment level of RES is also affected by the choice of policy design.;RE Policies ensuring certain revenues shift risks from generators to society Lower risks for investors due to increased certainty in revenues implies a shift of risks from investorsoperators to those actors paying the premium or tariff, in most cases the final electricity consumers. This is because guaranteed feed in or fixed remuneration sets off the market mechanisms, and forecasting and marketing is shifted from generators to transmission grid operators, which transfer their costs to consumers (in case of burdensharing through electricity consumers). And, at the system level, the levelised costs of electricity generation decrease due to falling costs of capital.;Risk premiums due to RE policy design changes are mainly reflected in the equity share and return on equity The degree of change in the three components of the WACC differs. In practice, financing institutions such as banks and insurances have regulatory binding risk provision requirements, e.g. Basel II, which do not allow banks to reduce risk margins unlimited. As shown in a study of Breitschopf  Pudlik (2013), even if the regulatory required risk margins for projects in wind power under a fixed feedin tariff scheme exceed actual risks, banks can barely reduce them under the given regulation.;However, the level of cost of debt is primarily set by the market and changes in policy design have a comparatively limited impact about 100 basis points of WACC, when moving from a sliding to a fixed premium compared to more than 1000bp between low risk and high risk country (e.g. Greece) In a competitive market, banks scope to adjust lending rates is limited as they follow the market price setting principles is there an excess supply of capital (credits), the costs of debt are low, and vice versa. In contrast, equity providers are free to adjust their expected returns to changing risk levels. This is reflected by the survey results as well expected returns disclose larger changes than loan interest rates. Moreover, under increasing uncertainties banks tend to demand higher equity shares, leading to higher costs of capital, as well.;Besides these analysed policy designs, other factors highly impact the cost of capital. For example, retroactive policy changes, as implemented in Spain (FIT of PV) or as announced (but not implemented) in Germany, have affected the cost of capital, because the probability of retroactive policy changes has increased uncertainty about future revenues. Subsequently, investors risks have increased as well. This higher risk translates into a