Description In order to construct and operate a power plant, developers must obtain several permits. The total time required to obtain these is referred to as administrative lead time. Among the Member States, administrative procedures can vary depending on the complexity and time required to get permits and licences.;Risk strategy and Policies Administrative and social acceptance risks are intertwined. (See above for strategies and policies). However, the structure and quality of the public administrative system is of importance as well. With RES becoming more and more integrated in (andor affecting) the built environment, national and regional governments are faced with new challenges, for instance where energy and climate policies and spatial planning policies need to interact.; Education, training and informing civil servants (e.g. responsible for energy, built environment, transport, spatial planning, health, safety  environment, communication, etc.) or;Description RES projects that are to be financed or refinanced offbalance, need to be bankable and investable. During the project development phase, the market, financial, economic andor policy circumstances might change, resulting in banks not willing or able to lend money under acceptable conditions andor investors requiring (too) high returns. This could jeopardise the (re)financing of the project, and hence the construction or continuation of operation of the project.;Project lifecycle impacts Financing risks occur throughout the project lifecycle. However, in most cases, it is relevant for the planning phase, notably for projects with high CAPEX in combination with relatively long development periods before the financial investment decision (FID). Some projects can only lend a restricted period (e.g. five year), or are initially financed onbalance. In both examples, refinancing is required after this period. Again, financing conditions may have unfavourably changed in the meantime.;Risk strategy For the project developerinvestor, several risk mitigation strategies can be applied (e.g. fixing several financial parameters in advance). From a policy perspective, risk sharing is frequently applied (e.g. loan guarantees).