Figure 23 gives an indicative example of the cashflow of a 500 MW offshore wind energy project with CAPEX of 1.4 billion euro. The shape of the free cash flow determines the overall net present value and internal rate of return and, hence, whether or not the project is attractive to investors.;The bottom of the figure shows the nominal and discounted cashflow (investor perspective). It illustrates the importance of risks in the early years of the project cycle, due to the time preference of money. The surface under the dotted line (for positive values) should at least equal the surface above the dotted line for negative values. As an example development costs (DEVEX) contribute to 2 of the levelised cost of electricity (LCOE) for this project. Intuitively one would expect that a reduction of these DEVEX by 10 (e.g. through improved permitting procedures) would result in a 0.2 (10  2) reduction in LCOE. However, due to the time preference of money  which is reflected in the value of the discount rate20  this effect is much bigger, almost 1 in this example (15 discount rate).;Description Country risks refer to a set of factors which can adversely affect the profits of all investments in a country. These factors include political stability, level of corruption, economic development, design and functioning of the legal system and exchange rate fluctuations.;The country risks affect all investments in a particular country, not only those in RES. So, improving the political, regulatory, financial and economic conditions will also benefit RES deployment by reducing the risk premiums applied by investors and lenders. In this section, we will focus on economic risk, which is most relevant to European Member States, and on which renewable energy deployment can have a positive impact. Other country risks (e.g. corruption, a flawed legal system) may be harder to address through RES deployment or in particular through RES policies.;Project lifecycle impacts Country risks affect the full project lifecycle. Since the risks are not specific to investments in renewable energy, they are typically addressed through generic monetary, economic and fiscal policies, through restructuring of laws, regulations and institutions, etc.;Risk strategy High country risks typically result in high cost of capital and high required levels of financial support to attract investors. If, from a societal perspective, the benefits of renewable energy still outweigh these higher costs, a policy response is to accept this risk and the financialbudgetary consequences hereof.;20 The time preference of money reflects the behavior of investors they prefer to have 1 today over 1 in a given future. If an investor values 1.15 over one year to be equal to 1 today, the discount rate is 15. Higher discount rates hence result in higher weighted average cost of capital (WACC).