As a consequence, in Member States with higher risks the same installed capacities will lead to higher costs when compared to a market that carries lower risks and thus lower capital costs. The comparison also qualifies the relevance of natural conditions for the economic assessment. Markets with relatively mediocre wind conditions (such as Germany) can be financially much more interesting than markets with very good wind energy conditions (such as Spain or Portugal). This shows that natural resources are only one factor among others in the investment decision. Other factors that have an impact on the WACC  such as the policy design risks or country risk  must also be taken into account. Last but not least, the figures show that the energy transition in many EU Member States was also possible because of very low and favourable costs for capital.;Other interesting observations can be drawn from the examination of the WACC, but also the single factors of the WACC, i.e. the values for cost of debt, cost of equity and the ratio between debt and equity in the single Member States.;Figure 13 below shows the ratio of cost and debt for onshore wind projects across the EU 28. The figures are based on our model, and have been modified in accordance with the results of the interviews with project developers and investors (see section 3.3 for details). The comparison confirms the conclusions drawn from the WACC examination the conditions for financing onshore wind projects differ significantly from country to country. In 2014, when the market actors were interviewed, the markets in Germany and Denmark allowed for a debt ratio that reached or even surpassed 80. This allowed developers in these markets to benefit from lower cost of debts, as they were able to use a very high leverage.;Investors in SouthEast European Member States had to provide up to 50 of their investment budget through equity financing. This drove up the costs for financing onshore wind energy plants and often made financing of projects impossible. A debt ratio below 70 (ranging from 5065) was found in almost a third of all EU markets, which illustrates the perceived risks for onshore wind investments in many EU Member States.