Remarkably, even though the Belgian policy framework has remained unaltered for almost twelve years, interviewees consider policy changes as a very important risk. It was especially mentioned that retrospective changes in legislation can entirely freeze investments. Nevertheless, such changes have not yet been observed in Belgium. Model results suggest that the impact of technical  management risks is negligible. Some interviewees agreed the experience gained in onshore wind projects has considerably reduced technical  management risks, even in some cases for offshore wind. Other interviewees disagreed, stating that technical  management risks are important, particularly for offshore wind projects, as they have higher operational and maintenance costs compared to onshore wind projects.;This cost increase should be taken into account upfront during the evaluation of a project. However, this was not supported by everyone. Social acceptance and financing risks were not mentioned as being important in Belgium, contrary to the results of the model. Finally, policy design risks were mentioned, but considered unimportant as according to the interviewees, the existing policy framework is something predetermined and there is no alternative choice.;Interviewees scored the effectiveness26 of policies in Belgium to decrease investment risks with a score of 34 (n3) suggesting a fairly effective system. In order to make support mechanisms more effective, the interviewed financial experts suggested to introduce a policy like feedin tariff which would provide more certain future cash flows. Additionally, it was mentioned that for a stable system, lower LCOE is needed. While higher remuneration from support mechanisms is desirable for developers, this will only hold for the short term. In the long term, high prices paid by the consumer, due to the support mechanisms, can cause social opposition preventing further development.;According to the interviewees, the policy framework is not equally stable for all technologies in Belgium. For instance, investments in PV were negatively affected over the last years due to the frequent change of the value of certificates, making investors reluctant to invest in new largescale PV projects. On the contrary, wind energy has experienced a longrun stability in the policy framework over the last 1012 years. This lasting stability, started with the change of the PPA regime to CFD regime. The CFD regime effectively reduced market design  regulatory risk for electricity prices and improved the investment environment for wind energy according to the interviewees.