To capture the impact of policies on risks, cost of capital is used. It measures the risks by means of a weighted average of cost of equity and debt, i.e. the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), which is a widely used tool in financial analyses. Given the WACC as the most suited indicator for risks, the interest rate of debt, the return on equity (ROE) and the equity share (ES) represent the main financing parameters that determine the WACC and reflect different risk levels for debt as well as equity providers. Although risks might affect other financing parameters, such as upfront fees, guarantees or term structures, the focus of this approach is on these three financing parameters. They capture the uncertainties in revenues or expenditures through the respective magnitude of the minimum required ROE and equity share.;To find out how the financing parameters are impacted by the different policy designs, the participants of the survey had to indicate how strongly the financing parameters  interest rate, ROE and equity share  will change if the policy design are modified. This means they had to specify to what extent the rates would change if there was a switch from the sliding feedin premium to a slightly riskier policy design. Such a switch could be e.g. to a sliding feedin premium where no premiums are paid if the electricity market price is below zero, or to a less risky design such as a feedin tariff.;Furthermore, the respondents were asked to indicate, whether the given financing parameters for the sliding feedin premium were matching the current rates in their country. They could also suggest new values. The design of the questionnaire can be found in Annex F. Based on the answers, the WACC under each policy design was calculated. The differences represent the additional risk costs when moving from one policy design to another.;To approach potential participants, the survey and its electronic link have been introduced at several conferences and workshops, sent to different mailing lists and personal contacts. In total, more than 200 people were addressed through the DiaCore email list and even more through the energyL email list (see Annex 1). Fourteen surveys were returned covering the countries Austria, Belgium, Germany, Greece, Italy, Lithuania and Spain. To verify the results of the survey, bilateral talks were conducted with some of the respondents and the results were presented and discussed at workshops.