The risk perception of investors can be influenced by several factors e.g. policy design, sudden policy changes, permitting procedures, grid access etc. Within the DiaCore project, specific risk categories were identified, which will impact wind onshore projects throughout their duration. We only analysed those risks that can be mitigated by RES policies. Across all EU Member States, the risks induced by policy designs is perceived as most pressing. This includes the choice of the policy scheme implemented by the Member States (e.g. Feedin tariff, Feedin Premium, Quota etc.). This choice determines the level of certainty for project developers. It also includes special design elements for existing policies such as the level of support, payment, and type of financing.;Policies have a role to play in mitigating investment risks, leading to additional savings. Governments potentially have a big role in mitigating risks, for instance by providing clarity on grid procedures and processes, implementing longterm stable policy schemes, improving structure and quality of the public administrative system and providing financial risksharing. As Member States show great variety in regulatory frameworks supporting renewable energy, in the maturity of the market, the availability of capital, and the involvement of governments, each of the measures should be tailored to fit the needs of individual Member State and mitigate risks efficiently and effectively. Policy designs stimulating RES, while keeping a good balance on costeffectiveness, are important to avoid windfall profits of high government or societal expenditures. We drafted a policy toolbox providing a starting point for mitigating investment risks and lowering the cost of capital for RES investments.;Calculations based on the Green X Model show that if all countries would have the same renewable energy policy risk profile as the best in class, EU Member States could reduce the policy costs for wind onshore by more than 15. A reduced country risk could lead to greater savings.;In Part 1, insights were gained in the cost of capital for investments in renewable energy sources (RES). In order to estimate the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC)2, a theoretical model was constructed. In this model, an estimation of the cost of equity was made for onshore wind projects in each EU Member State based on the fluctuation of RES industries share values compared to average fluctuations in share values. Secondly, the WACC was estimated for each Member State based on the modelled result of the cost of equity, information on the cost of debt as well as the debt, and equity ratio for onshore wind projects.