The approach of this work package builds on the latter the higher the uncertainties (risks), the higher the minimum required expected return. Therefore, the cost of capital for RES investments seems to be properly reflected by interest rates, expected return on equity and equity share.;The impact of policies on risks has been discussed by several authors. For example, Wiser  Pickle (1998) show that a carefully designed policy can reduce renewable energy costs dramatically by providing a predictable revenue stream, resulting in reduced financing costs. They reviewed five case studies of RES policies showing that policies that do not provide longterm stability or that have negative secondary impacts on investment decisions will increase financing costs, sometimes dramatically reducing the effectiveness of the program.  It is essential that policymakers  pay special attention to the impacts of renewables policy design on financing. Their conclusion is that a carefully designed RES policy could decrease LCOE dramatically by reducing uncertainties about revenues which subsequently lowers risks and, hence, financing cost. Based on this statement and the findings of the risk categorization within the project DiaCore (DiaCore D3.1), risks induced through policy designs are considered as the most crucial risks for wind power investments across the EU.;Couture  Gagnon (2010) analysed the design of feedin schemes, namely the fixed price or marketindependent price policy like tariffs and the premium or marketdependent price policy, with respect to RES investments. According to them, fixed price policies can help to lower investment risks due to lower price risks, while premium policies expose RES generators to greater price and, hence, investment risks, but also act as an incentive to generate electricity when it is most needed. According to Dinica (2006), the impact of these policies on risks can be captured through changes in revenues or expenditures. He recognises that several policy elements, which affect price, demand and contract risks, translate into lower profitability and cash flow.;These changes are also reflected in expected returns and equity shares. In Giebel  Breitschopf (2011) a similar approach has been pursued to assess the impact of different policy designs on cost of capital. They translate changes in risk exposures by means of conjoint and cashflow analysis into changes of cost of capital. Based on these findings, it is assumed that policies impact on risks can be captured by the expected cashflow of a project and, hence, by expected returns.;Our assessment of the impact of policy design on risk and financing costs is based on the logic depicted in Figure 17. Policies affect revenues and expenditures of RES investments through their design of premiums, tariffs, penalties and purchase or marketing obligation. Revenues and expenditures determine the return on investment, i.e. the level of return and the variation of returns over the lifetime of a RES project. Thus, policy designs affect the exposure to price risks through the design of premiums and tariffs, volume risks through forecasting and marketing of generated electricity and cost risks if penalties are due.