 Stakeholder participation and innovative democratic processes Project developers, (local) authorities and policymakers aim to avoid lengthy project development processes and frequently try to involve stakeholders in an early stage or offer them financial compensation or participation. The approach is generally rather technocratic and is based on the assumption that good arguments will result in a successful project implementation. But many stakeholders (neighbours, house owners, companies) feel that they have to bear the burden, whereas others reap the benefits. Opponents and proponents are mobilised which seldom results in a solutionoriented discussion. A better, more effective approach can result in a larger uptake of energy solutions, with support from local people. Different process tools and approaches can facilitate true stakeholder participation, like Future Search, Open Dialogue, Open Space Technology, or World Cafe. Governments could actively share best practices, draft guidelines for successful processes of stakeholder participation and involvement, in cooperation with the RES industry and stakeholder representative groups. Notably, local governments may wish to explore new democratic models that can increase local participation and support.; (Partial or Initiated) Codevelopment by government Governments may take over part of the planning risk for project developersinvestors by arranging the (generic) environmental and spatial planning permits. For offshore wind this is applied in, for instance, France and The Netherlands, followed by a tender procedure. In Denmark, the transmission system operator (TSO) has been made responsible to prepare the environmental impact assessment for six proposed nearshore sites. The project will still have to pass a specific (environmental) impact assessment, but the overall risk is reduced.  Also, local governments (e.g. cities with RES or climate targets) can take a proactive role by arranging the required permits. Best practices need to be shared, since the different roles of government and project developer require special attention.;New democratic models In 2015 the city of Utrecht (NL, over 300.000 inhabitants) applied a variant of deliberative democracy and asked 165 randomly selected citizens to draft an energy plan towards 2030 (www.utrecht.nlenergy). The process highly concentrated on finding common grounds for the elements of the citys energy future, within the group of participants and with other stakeholders (e.g. distribution system operator, housing cooperatives, etc.). Whether or not this new approach can actually accelerate the deployment of energy efficiency measures and renewable energy will be demonstrated in the coming years.