Bulgaria. Recent energy policy measures only increased these investment risks.; The biggest problem is the lacking legal security. Most foreign investors have thereforewithdrawn from the Bulgarian market.;The two risks that were mentioned by all interviewees were the policy design risk and the sudden policy change risk. Grid access risks (e.g. refusal of grid connection or curtailment) and market design  regulatory risks (such as the lacking liberalisation of the Bulgarian energy market) were also mentioned. Social acceptance and administrative risks were considered as minor risk categories. According to one interviewee, the judicial risk has the highest impact on RES projects in Bulgaria. This refers to the unpredictability and the lack of transparency of the legal system. In general, law suits against the state regulator or the TSO are very lengthy and are mostly unsuccessful. According to the interviewee, courts are biased and decide often in favour of the state regulator.;In general, the biggest problem in Bulgaria is the lacking legal security. The policy design and the sudden policy change risks have the highest impact on the cost of equity in Bulgaria. In the past, the feedin tariff have been changed suddenly and there have been several retroactive measures which considerably worsened the investment climate. At this moment, there are no more foreign companies investing in renewable energy and over the past 23 years no new RES project above 1 MW has been implemented. There are only few smaller projects mostly developed by Bulgarian investors. These developers only receive bank loans due to the fact that they have a successful main business (such as construction companies, hotels, etc.) which increases their creditworthiness. Currently, there are no investors which would focus only on renewable energy.; This risk was not mentioned during the interviews (n3) The colours indicate risk categories that have a different ranking in the model results and the interview results. Each risk has its own colour code.