higher minimum threshold for ROE. Similarly, financing institutions reduce their risk exposure by demanding a higher equity share.;As risk perception and aversion differs according to investor types, policies might determine which type of investor will actually invest high risk RES investment might attract investors with a large portfolio and low risk aversion. Additional instruments, such as grants, guarantees, and subsidised interest rates, could reduce the level of risk exposure (return) and, therefore, might even attract smaller and more risk averse investors under a riskier policy scheme. However, these additional support policies might increase policy costs.;Efficiently allocating risks and hence costs between generators and society is a challenge In summary, an increasing market integration of RES generation implies more responsibility for RES generators. This is equivalent to shifting risks from the public (e.g. consumer) to generators. This increase in risk entails higher return on equity and equity shares, hence higher financing costs. As a consequence, appropriate remuneration levels are required to achieve the RES targets and compensate for higher risks and trigger RES deployment. This leads to increased policy costs, which are offset by decreasing costs for market integration (decreasing cost of balancing). Therefore, careful monitoring of the balance of policy costs  reduction due to risk shifts (balancing) versus increase of policy costs due to high remuneration levels  is needed.;For each of the nine risk categories, measures to mitigate these risks have been formulated, based on the input from interviewees, project developers and policymakers. The resulting measures provide a starting point and useful guidance. In order to be effectively implemented, the measures should be tailored to the specific needs of Member States national regulatory framework. For mitigating country risks, it is most important to make RES deployment a part of a (longterm) economic and industrial policy framework by improving competitiveness of RES options and the availability, accessibility and quality of resources.