During the building phase, the probability of a project failure goes down because challenges during the permission process, the grid connection process and possible conflicts with neighbours are usually resolved. On the other hand, new risks become apparent such as the risk of (retroactive) sudden policy changes or technical  management risks. In addition, the investment costs increase rapidly and therefore the possible effect of the risks. Thus, although the probability of the occurrence of a risk decreases, the effect of the risk increases and with that the impact of the risk. Therefore, investment risks are even more relevant in this phase than during the inception phase.;This pattern also holds during the operational phase. Most of the investments have been made at this point which would result in a severe effect of risks that materialise. Additional risks such as technical  management risks, grid access risks (curtailment) and  depending on the support scheme  market design  regulatory risks become more relevant.;The last phase of a wind energy project is the postsupport phase. When the support has been phased out, market design  regulatory risks become very relevant, as, from that point onwards, a full integration in the market will be necessary. Over time, the relevance of technical risks also increases. The blades of wind energy plants are exposed to massive forces. This can cause material fatigue, particularly at the end of the operational phase and the post support phase. Considering the increased size of wind energy plants, it is expected that the exposure, and thus damages through material fatigue, will increase in the future. As a consequence, the relevance of technical  management risks may increase in the future.;An important parameter indicating the investment climate in a country is the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC). During the interviews, country experts were asked to comment on the modelled outputs of the financial parameters. Their input was used to update the WACCfigures. The result is presented in the map on the next page (Figure 12).