 Streamlining and proper management of administrative procedures A streamlined and properly managed administrative process, with clear moments of stakeholder interaction and clear procedures, can ease the development of RES projects while ensuring (local) stakeholder interests. It reduces administrative risk (see below), but can also help to increase social acceptance.; Enabling or prescribing financial participation One way of increasing public acceptance is to offer financial participation (debt or equity) to directly involved stakeholders. In Denmark, it is obligatory for project developers to offer shares for on and nearshore wind energy (minimum of 20) to nearby residents andor enterprises (nearshore). If not obligatory, the project developer will typically take the lead in this. Doing so, the potentially (or perceived) negative impacts can be partially financially compensated. Governments can facilitate this through removing legal and financial barriers, which currently may obstruct financial participation. For example, across Europe different laws and regulations exist with respect to crowdfunding (platforms). These differences across Member States will increase the transaction cost of a European rollout of this new finance model.; Facilitate citizen project ownership Higher levels of direct local project ownership reduce (in general) local resistance. To enable this, project approval has to be standardised and transparent. Remuneration procedures need to be designed in a simple and straightforward way. Such concerns and challenges are particularly important when introducing tenders that otherwise have the potential of disadvantaging smallscale project developers due to complex bidding procedures.; Addressing distributional impact of renewable energy support policies In many countries, policy support instruments for renewable electricity are financed through a surcharge or levy on the electricity price for endusers. Small consumers typically pay the highest rates, whereas industry and notably energyintensive industries are exempted or pay much lower rates. With higher shares of RES, some enduser groups may be confronted with significantly higher energy bills, whereas others benefit from lower electricity market prices. This distributional effect needs to be monitored and addressed appropriately by policymakers.; Communication facts and figures Misperceptions about the role of renewable energy in current and future energy systems can be persistent. It is important that stakeholders have access to reliable, factual and complete information, which is considered to be credible. Governments can provide such impartial information or support (nongovernmental) organisations with a neutral reputation.