Figure 7 shows that, on average, policy design risks were perceived as the most pressing risk to onshore wind energy projects across the EU. We can derive from this very high ranking that the design of the support scheme is still one, if not the key, prerequisite for stable investment conditions. Several experts referred to the policy design as being the rules of the game. For this reason, changes made in the policy design will have a high impact on investors, as it will change these rules and therefore bring uncertainty to investors. For instance in the UK, the upcoming policy scheme change leads to some unrest as projects developers are trying to find out what the advantages and disadvantages of the new policy scheme are, how it will affect their projects and, most importantly, if there is a reason to advance or postpone their projects. In addition, policies such as quota  green certificates or caps in premium schemesFiT impede a prediction of revenue which makes the calculation of the business case more difficult. N.B. the changes discussed under policy design risk are changes that have been announced upfront. Changes that are being imposed suddenly are categorised under sudden policy changes.;A group of risks concerning administrative issues, market design and grid access, follow at a relatively equal level. Interviews revealed that in most countries there are issues with obtaining grid access for renewable energy. With increasing shares of intermittent renewable energy sources and lack of clarity on responsibilities for connecting, enforcing and bearing the costs, it can be expected that this will become a more serious problem in the coming decades.;The third group of risks contains the social acceptance, sudden policy change and financing risks. These risks are all considered very critical in some of the Member States while  as we shall see  they are not relevant in others. Technical  management risk is at the end of the ranking, despite the fact that resource risk is considered as a pressing issue. This challenge, however, is regarded in most markets as part of the policy design15.Figure 7 provides an overview16 of the risks which were perceived as the most important risks in each Member State. Policy design is ranked as most important risk in 10 out of the 28 Member States, followed by administrative risks (7 Member States) and market design  regulatory risks (3 Member States). The map shows a broad distribution of the top3 risk categories across Member States these 3 risks are present in all parts of the EU.;15 The exact ranking of all risks in each Member State can be found in the following chapter. 16 This overview is based on the aforementioned interviews with market actors in 24 out of 28 EU Member States.