In the previous section investments were described from the perspective of the investor, focusing on risks, IRR and discount rate. In this section, the perspective changes to project developers. Where investors have the objective to increase revenues, project developers have the objective to lower costs. The costs of attracting capital are an important aspect in the financial profitability of the project.;There are two important sources of capital for project developers debt and equity. Debt is provided by banks and financial institutions, equity is obtained by (private) investors. The costs for attracting the investments are indicated by cost of debt and cost of equity. Both are expressed as an interest rate against which the money is attracted. As the discount rate and cost of equity are closely related, cost of equity can also be used as a proxy for investment risks when equity can be attracted at lower costs, investors perceive low risk.;To create more insights in the size of investment risks, a theoretical model was constructed to estimate the cost of equity for investing in renewable energy projects in each EU28 Member State. To make the assessment more specific, the model focused on the development of onshore wind projects. In order to provide insight in what risk categories are most pressing, a break down into the nine risk categories has been provided (see Table 1). The results of the theoretical model were tested during interviews with financial experts.;To estimate the scale of the risks, the cost of equity (CoE) of onshore wind projects has been estimated per Member State. For this, existing financial models were used together with data from literature and financial information9. To break down investments risks in nine categories, insights per Member State were obtained on the importance of each category (see section 3.2.2 for details). For this, a database on RES barriers was used10.;3.2.1 Project finance and financial parameters;To estimate the CoE for each Member State, the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) was used11. This model is based on the relationship between risk and return, and takes explicitly into account the level of risk. It can be applied to any investment with or without dividends regardless of the growth rate (Sharpe, 1964 Lintner, 1965). Finally, by adjusting the inputs for every country, the cost of equity among countries becomes comparable.;9 See section below on Project finance and financial parameters. 10 See section on Risk quantification. 11 A more extensive description of the CAPM, including formulas and assumptions can be found in Annex B.