Administrative risks focus mostly on permitting procedures and relate quite strongly to the structure and quality of the public administrative system. With a stronger integration of RES in the built environment, interaction of policies and spatial planning requires clear guidelines, onestop shops and education of civil servants.;Financing risks are mostly related to the perception of the banks and equity providers on the market, financial, economic andor policy circumstances and how these might change. This might lead to high cost of capital, which can then jeopardise the project. Risk sharing andor a strong(er) involvement of governments can mitigate these risks by functioning as a safety net.;Technical  management risks refer to the availability of knowledge and experience to successfully develop, construct, operate and decommission a particular RES project. Mitigation of these risks relates to the development of knowledge, skills and experience.;For grid access risks, the focus is on ensuring timely grid connection for new projects. Any uncertainty on this procedure will result in higher uncertainty in project returns, and, hence, higher cost of capital. Mitigating these risks will therefore focus on creating clarity on grid procedures and processes with regard to grid extension (plans), grid access, and on liabilities and compensation in case of delayed or interrupted access or curtailment.;Policy design risks relate mostly to support schemes and other government interventions to support the implementation of RES. Depending on the support scheme, risks are transferred between the market and project developers. In order to reduce the cost of capital, mitigating measures typically address the level of the expected return andor the standard deviation in the expected return. Important in this discussion is the balance between support to stimulate RES development, implementation and overspending (windfall profits).;Market design  regulatory risks refer to the uncertainties regarding government energy strategy and powerenergy market liberalisation. Implementing fair and independent regulation ensures nondiscriminatory access for RESproducers to the market.;Sudden policy change risks refer to drastic and sudden changes in a countrys RES strategy andor support scheme. The result of these changes is a significant decrease or even a complete standstill of the development of RES. Causes for sudden policy changes are, for instance, the costeffectiveness of government budgets spent on the implementation of RES. A good balance needs to be found between stimulating RES with the right policy design while ensuring costeffectiveness in order to avoid windfall profits of high government or societal expenditures.