For instance in large parts of the province of Flevoland, onshore wind is completely accepted, whereas in NorthHolland the development of the Wieringermeer project generates fierce opposition. Here civilians are now litigating to prevent this project. Based on the current discussion, the province of NorthHolland has decided to no longer grant permits for onshore wind projects.;For technical  management risks was mentioned that they are not 0 (as suggested in the model), although for onshore wind these risks are still fairly low. They were mentioned two times as being important, but this was then related to offshore wind. Grid access, market design  regulatory and financing are risks that could not be neglected, still they are not experienced by the interviewees as being the most important risks. Finally, sudden policy changes are not considered as risk factor at all as the government is considered to be fairly stable in the Netherlands. The adjustments in the model are indicated by the arrows in the graph.;Over the last five years, some small changes occurred in the policy regime. This included changes in tariffs andor changes in other support schemes. According to the interviewees these changes did not directly impact RES investments, although it increased uncertainty among investors. In this light the Energieakkoord was mentioned as a step forward, providing long term commitment from government, utilities and other important parties.;Interviewees did score the effectiveness51 of Dutch policies to decrease investment risks with a score 3 (n3). To improve this score, interviewees mentioned guarantees for more secure cash flows in the operational phase and reimbursement for capital overruns in the development phase.;Furthermore, increasing government commitment, by guaranteeing that decisions and policies will last for longer periods and will not be changed by a new governments. As renewable projects hugely depend on policies, a long term stable policy framework will reduce the risk for renewables. In this case the role of the UK government in the development of offshore wind was mentioned as an example of being highly committed as a government, resulting in many investments.