However, if the country risk is mainly related to the economic condition of a country, the government may wish to use the deployment of RES, as a means to strengthen the economy. RES deployment hence becomes part of a (longterm) economic and industrial policy framework. Depending on specific national conditions (e.g. geographic, economic, supply and demand structure, RES resource potential and cost), the government can stimulate particular elements of RES value chains in RES clusters, offering opportunities for economic growth and job creation. This more holistic approach has the opportunity to reduce the country risk in the longterm.;Policies (value creation) IEARETD (2014)21 provides elements of policies that increase the domestic value creation through RES deployment. Such policies aim at increasing the domestic share from RES value creation such that overall societal welfare is maintained or increased. This can be most efficiently achieved by; Directly addressing support to selected RET producers or service providers. (p.3).;1. Strategic investment promotion Strategic targeting of specific firms and segments ofthe value chain based on a longterm vision for the RES sector.;3. Developing industrial clusters, including mechanisms to promote a mix of competitionand cooperation between firms that emphasise the linking of firms to the education and RD institutions that focus on cooperation within the industrial cluster itself and with government.;4. Improving cooperation between public research organisations and private sector, e.g.;4. Improving cooperation between public research organisations and private sector, e.g.through the creation of centres of excellence.;5. Enhancing knowhow through education  training, e.g. by integrating training;5. Enhancing knowhow through education  training, e.g. by integrating trainingprogrammes in vocational training systems promoting and coordinating local apprenticeships, etcetera.;21 IEARETD (2014), Policy Instruments to Support Renewable Energy Industrial Value Chain Development (RES ValuePolicies), Lehr, U., B. Breitschopf  G. Vidican GWSFraunhofer ISIGerman Development Institute, IEA Implementing Agreement for Renewable Energy Technology Deployment (IEARETD), Utrecht, 2014.