 By focusing on the longterm and major strategic pathways and actions, MSP can provide visions and directions for development and conservation (Ehler et al. 2007 Ehler 2018). One should pursue optimacy, that is the extent to which an MSP and SEA process follows best practice according to international standards (Bond et al. 2018 Rehhausen et al. 2018), rather than the basic requirements that all too often are the primary focus.  The precautionary principle matters offshore, since impacts are often not predictable and beset with substantial uncertainties (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). In managing uncertainty, risk assessments that adopt the ALARP principle (as low as reasonably possible), focusing on realistic risks and not simply worst case scenarios (Gill et al. 2018), could be applied in MSP.  By covering various types of impacts, including cumulative, in combination, synergistic, shortterm and longterm, as well as adverse and beneficial, planning can pursue an integrative approach, identifying potential conflicts but also synergies between maritime uses (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015).  Addressing the accurate planning level is of importance to cope successfully with the issues and problems at hand (HELCOM VASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). One size does not necessarily fit all MSP tiers. Whereas the overarching MSP plan needs to integrate and balance all sectors and uses, sectoral marine plans have specific targets and often focus on wind energy, leaving less room for the consideration of alternative developments (Dahmen 2017).  Planning human use is to be based on the latest state of knowledge of ecosystems, thus safeguarding the components of the marine ecosystem in the best possible way (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). In adopting common approaches and methods to evidencebased planning and by sharing data widely, knowledge on the marine environment and MSP can grow.  However, the crucial question is Will the new data be used if there is more development of OWFs and other marine uses? This question refers to the requirement to establish and apply the best available science mandate in planning and impact assessment (Wolters et al. 2016 Weber et al. 2019). With an increasing body