Nocturnal visual surveys are generally challenged by visible light limitation, which may be resolved to some degree by using ambient or amplified natural as well as artificial light. Thedescription of the ceilometer technique using spotlights (e.g. portable version by Gauthreaux 1969) has been omitted from this review because spotlights tend to attract birds and bats either directly or indirectly through enhanced food supply from light attracted insects. As the potential detection bias has not been rigorously quantified, the ceilometer technique is no longer considered relevant for quantifying nocturnal bird activity. In contrast, the moon provides the strongest ambient, nighttime light source and moonwatching, used in ornithological research to quantify bird migration since the early 1950s (Lowery 1949), is still viewed as a valuable technique. In this, the silhouettes of bats and birds are visible with a spotting scope as they pass in front of the illuminated disc of the moon, providing a means of detecting and generally quantifying the animals present under pristine environmental conditions such as clear skies (Lowery 1949 Liechti et al. 1995). However, range is restricted to a few hundred metres owing to the difficulties in discriminating bat from bird silhouettes beyond 150 m (Kunz et al. 2007). Moonwatching can therefore yield passage rates, expressed as number of animals per time. Estimates on flight height are also possible, but are rather crude and strongly observer dependent. The advantages of moonwatching compared to more automated methods include low equipment cost, a lack of artefacts caused by artificial lights and no enhanced insect contamination of samples. The primary disadvantage of this labour intensive method comprises limited opportunities for observations, set by astronomical and weather parameters (Kunz et al. 2007). Furthermore, Liechti et al. (1995) report on a conspicuous observer bias, with beginners spotting at most half of the bats and birds seen by experienced observers and a distancedependent spotting efficacy among the latter. A key constraint is also that the passage rates derived from the analysis are only relative to other moon watching surveys, and while they may help to document high versus lowactivity nights, they are limited in providing a quantitative estimate of migration intensity. Conditions for moon watching are astronomically restricted to about four sufficiently moonlit nights per month and further constrained in meteorological terms by the need for cloudless conditions and good weather. The opportunity to directly observe bird collisions through moon