 Exposure to piledriving activities at 750 m was unlikely to cause a permanent threshold shift (PTS) to humpback dolphins hearing.  Accumulation of acoustic energy at 750 m could, however, induce a temporary threshold shift (TTS) if dolphins remained in the area for some hours.  Broadband increases in interpulse sound levels extended to 3 km from the piling source and would be likely to cause acoustic masking. The ETS humpback dolphin population has a restricted nearshore range, and therefore is at greater risk than other wider ranging species that may be more flexible and thus better able to abandon noisy habitats. As such, there is a strong possibility that ETS dolphins may suffer auditory damage and will be disturbed during windfarm construction.;The results of this study provided information on potential impact zones, which assisted in the design of baseline and impact monitoring surveys. The information also led to the establishment of strict mitigation protocols during windfarm construction. At the time of writing, fullscale windfarm development had not yet commenced however, impact monitoring surveys comprising both static PAM and boatbased linetransect surveys are planned, with the joint aim of documenting impacts on the humpback dolphin population and the effectiveness of mitigation protocols.;A number of static acoustic devices have been used extensively in windfarm marine mammal monitoring surveys, such as the C POD and its predecessor, the TPOD (Figure 2.8). These have been used in multiple studies of Harbour Porpoise in northwestern European waters, such as the study at Egmond aan Zee (OWEZ) in the Netherlands (Figure 2.9) (Scheidat et al. 2011 Lindeboom et al. 2011). The TPOD was developed in the 1990s to investigate Harbour Porpoise bycatch in set net fisheries (Tregenza 1998) and was designed to be robust, yet lightweight, and easy to deploy and retrieve by fishers. The TPOD has continually evolved, and today, the CPOD and Deep CPOD are commonly used in the monitoring