This system was developed to automatically record bird collisions at wind turbines and inform users about individual incidents (Ahmad et al. 2013). The system consists of microphones and two video cameras equipped with CCDs sensitive to infrared radiation (Wiggelinkhuizen et al. 2006). Cameras are mounted together withinfrared lightemitting diode (LED) floodlights on the lower part of a turbine monopole facing towards the rotorswept area. Two acceleration sensors are fixed to each blade of the rotor for collision detection, which triggers storage of video and acoustic signals during daytime and nighttime (Wiggelinkhuizen et al. 2006 Ahmad et al. 2013). Moreover, an email is sent to inform the user upon system activation. To minimise the rate of false positives, the system continuously analyses and verifies all incoming data (see Figure 1 in Collier et al. 2011).;WTBird records the number and timing of collision events and enables taxonomic identification of larger birds (Collier et al. 2011). Monitoring of additional parameters by WTBird, such as birds in the immediate vicinity of the wind turbine, rotor position and weather conditions, is intended and WTBird could subsume turbine maintenance costs through detection of rotorblade damage. Field testing of a WTBird prototype in the Netherlands commenced in late 2005, indicating moderate accuracy in detecting collisions with airborne dummy objects that represented the smallest abundant bird species (Wiggelinkhuizen et al. 2006). Technical testing appears to be ongoing as a commercial version is not yet available.;DTBird is a modular system developed by LIQUEN in Spain to detect and respond to bird presence with the aim of protecting birds from collision with wind turbines (e.g. Hanagasioglu et al. 2015). For bird detection, DTBird uses up to eight highdefinition video cameras that fully cover the airspace around a wind turbine, which is autonomously and continuously monitored at light levels above 50 lux (May et al. 2012 Hanagasioglu et al. 2015). In addition, the system uses thermal cameras and acoustic recordings at night (DTBird 2018).;No detailed information about system performance, such as the range of detection of nocturnal birds, is available. However, in principle the detection range is dependent on bird size and weather conditions. In daylight, larger birds, such as raptors and vultures, for which the system was originally developed, are detected at a