Current knowledge is often sufficient to predict and prevent degradation of ecosystems, through careful planning, technology choice, good practice, and mitigation and restoration measures. Baseline studies and environmental monitoring programmes must be carefully planned and employ rigorous data collection if the analyses are to be capable of showing significant results for both anticipated and unforeseen effects. Since baseline studies of wind farms are performed at a fine scale, monitoring data may also serve as fundamental research on faunal distribution and behaviour, as well as playing a crucial role in the consenting and permitting processes. The continuously growing offshore wind industry requires certainty about effects before, during and after installation, to minimise or even eliminate any potential detrimental impacts on marine habitats and ecosystems. This chapter reviews monitoring methods, technologies and scientific tools that are commonly applied to monitoring fish and invertebrates at operational sites. Seabed communities are defined as the interacting assemblage of organisms in the sediment (infauna) and on sediment and structures (epifauna and algae), as well as demersal and pelagic fish. Case studies from scientifically developed monitoring programmes and studies are provided as examples of rigorous data gathering capableof showing environmental change. A successful baseline study and monitoring programme is likely to include a combination of traditional tools, such as fykenet fishing, and modern and developing technologies, such as sonar and the use of telemetry to track the response of individual fish to windfarm construction and operation. To further our understanding of longterm and cumulative impacts, data from monitoring programmes should ideally be collected, analysed and reported in a way that allows for future additional analyses. Examples of such data include changes in benthic community structure that may affect shelf ecosystem services such as carbon mineralisation andor burial, or changes in fish diversity and abundance.;Environmental issues play a central role in the consenting process of offshore wind projects. As evidenced by Volume 3 in this series (Perrow 2019), the already substantial volume of sciencebased information on the environmental impact of offshore wind farms (OWFs) is still growing, most importantly with regard to longterm and cumulative impacts. In combination with an increasingly comprehensive palette of strategies to avoid shortterm impact and longterm degradation of ecosystems, the arguments to stop a wind farm based on the precautionary principle alone are becoming weaker. After more than 15 years of environmental monitoring surveys and scientific research at OWFs, much has been learned regarding the effects on marine ecosystems. The strongest and best understood environmental stressors are associated with the construction phase, although the operational phase likely affects oceanographic processes (Brostrm et al. 2019) and the distribution and abundance of animals and therefore ecosystem functioning (Perrow 2019). In comparison to wind power on land, the use of large turbines in OWFs is facilitated by a combination of low landscape impact, eased logistics as a result of shipborne transport and assembly of turbines, and remote operation and maintenance. However, OWFs are relatively sparsely packed, sometimes with 1 km or more between turbines. Hence, the direct areal impact on