It was therefore concluded that the use of the box snapshot method and the use of a larger sample area that is not effectively sampled in density calculations, underestimated the density of mostly mediumsized flying birds (see Table 3.1) in this case. It is important to note, however, that it was not possible to make a comparison for both small and large speciessuch as Northern Gannet or large Larus gulls, and further tests need to be undertaken under different conditions (e.g. vessels and eyeheights) to generate a larger data set for a more detailed comparison.;Seagreen Wind Energy Limited funded the study. We are also grateful to Andrew Chick and Rab Shand, the additional surveyors other than the authors, and Jim Keenan and Danny Brand aboard the Eileen May.;Even if distance correction is not, or cannot be, performed on flying birds, it has been suggested that a radial snapshot is likely to provide more accurate measures of density than the conventional rectangular snapshot zone originally designed within the framework of a striptransect method to achieve 100 longitudinal coverage of the strip transect for flying birds. This is because the many seabirds, especially small or indistinct ones, may not detected at the farthest limits of the strip (Barbraud  Thiebot 2009) and, even if they could be, surveyors are required to account for the distance of the bird relative to its angle from the observer in order for it to be accurately placed within the transect strip (Box 3.4). To account, at least, for the detectability of small indistinct seabirds such as European Storm Petrels Hydrobates pelagicus, surveyors may resort to using binoculars (van der Meer  Leopold 1995).;Some surveyors have used conventional linetransect methods in which the range and bearing are calculated for each individual bird sighting, for surveys around prospective windfarm sites in the mid Atlantic region of the eastern USA (Connelly et al. 2015). Here, the authors used the vector analysis method of Spear et al. (1992) to account for flux of flying birds. However, experience suggests that swamping of observers may occur, even at moderate seabird density, and Connelly et al. (2015) reported that they had to reduce their focus to a 300 m strip transect when swamping occurred. Line transect methods may, however, still be achievable when seabirds are at low density, such as described by Barbraud  Thiebaut (2009) and Black et al. (2015).