While wind energy is a critical component of the efforts to address climate change targets, the construction and operation of offshore wind farms poses a risk to several groups of birds including seabirds (King 2019 Vanermen  Stienen 2019) and nonseabirds, such as migratory waterbirds, passerines and raptors as well as migratory bats (Hppop et al. 2019), which share some similarities with small nocturnally migrating birds. Negative effects from OWFs may result from collisions, displacement including barrier effects, and indirect effects such as reductions in prey availability and other ecosystem effects (Perrow 2019). Reducing any risk of impacts to an acceptable level constitutes a key environmental issue for consenting and public acceptance of wind farms (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Fox et al. 2006 Langston 2013 Schuster et al. 2015 Green et al. 2016). Reduction of negative impacts to an acceptable level must be undertaken with sufficient confidence to ensure that the development is compliant with applicable conservation legislation (Jameson et al. 2019). Thus, consideration of mitigation measures, during for example Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) in relation to European protected sites, is crucial to ensuring that conservation objectives are met (OSPAR 2008). In some countries, such as Australia, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) may also be required, incorporating a mitigation strategy to deal with specific impacts. Statutory bodies may also impose licence conditions thatrequire the developer to take further steps in relation to mitigation and monitoring, particularly of predicted residual effects.;Given the global expansion in the offshore wind industry, the probability of significant cumulative effects occurring is increasing, further complicating the consenting process and placing the onus on effective mitigation measures (Gartman et al. 2016a Willsteed et al. 2018). Consideration of mitigation at an early stage may thus reduce overall consenting risk and avoid delays in the consenting process that may otherwise affect renewable energy targets. Even where no significant impacts are likely to arise from a project, there is always scope for mitigation of possible effects to minimise or reduce risk, particularly where there is uncertainty in assessments. Mitigation also provides a pathway for engagement with critics and opponents of developments, through which opinions might be challenged, awareness raised and amicable solutions found. However, mitigation often involves tradeoffs or costs for the developer and operator, and there is often uncertainty about the efficacy of specific measures, particularly when these are untested.;The adoption of an accepted mitigation hierarchy during assessments and planning provides a tool for prioritising and targeting mitigation and helps to ensure that no net loss (NNL) or a net positive impact (NPI) is achieved (PricewaterhouseCoopers 2010). Some authors, such as Langston  Pullan (2003) and Marques et al. (2014), note a lack of consistency in the application of mitigation in relation to projects that may affect biodiversity. Nevertheless, May (2017) demonstrated the validity and application of a mitigation hierarchy approach in relation to onshore wind farms.