Figure 4.2 Example of information flow from initial tracking telemetry data obtained from a set of individual animals (orange box) to eventual use of this information (blue box) and then to determine spatial and temporalexposure to effects and impacts (green box). A range of telemetry devices may be used (see also Box 4.1) examples are given for geolocation global local sensor (GLS), Global Positioning System (GPS), platform terminal transmitter (PTT), timedepth recorder (TDR), altimeter (Alt), Accelerometer (Acc), temperature sensor (t) and activity logger (Act)  denotes any further information that could be included SPA  Special Protection Area and CRM  collision risk model. Grey dashed lines highlight potential uses of data, ahead of further processing or modelling, for example investigating connectivity with a windfarm development using initial tracks of animals the red highlighted boxes and red dashed lines indicate points at which external data sets may be introduced.;Telemetry studies provide a bank of information that is useful to determine connectivity with proposed, consented and operational windfarm developments. For example, the studies of Northern Gannet Morus bassanus tracked from Bass Rock and other colonies (e.g. Hamer et al. 2009 Votier et al. 2017) have enabled the spatial area usage of this wideranging species to be mapped. In addition, wider scale area usage during breeding of many different colonies has now been assessed, which highlights variations in foraging range between colonies and potential overlap with specific wind farms (Wakefield et al. 2013). A simple overlay of tracks of marine birds and windfarm sites or potential development zones is a straightforward Geographic Information System (GIS) exercise, with subsequent modelling used to generate density contours (Figure 4.3 see Box 4.3 and Box 4.4). A number of such studies have been used in EIAs in the UK, such as the tracking of Lesser Blackbacked Gulls Larus fuscus from Orford Ness (Box 4.3) used to assess interactions with the East Anglia OWF development zone (ERM 2012) and for a proposed extension to the Galloper wind farm in southeast England (RWE 2011). Similarly, information on Northern Gannet and Black legged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla tracked during the breeding season from Bempton Cliffs (Langston et al. 2013) was included to assess the potential for barrier effects for the Hornsea OWF development zone (SMartWind 2013), and telemetry data from several species, including Northern Fulmar Fulmarus glacialis, Blacklegged Kittiwake, Common Guillemot Uria aalge and Razorbill Alca torda, were used to assess (and apportion) effects for the Moray Firth and Neart na Gaoithe OWF development zones in eastern Scotland (Natural Power 2012 Mainstream Renewable Power 2012).