(Elliott et al. 2008). This eclectic mix and the ability to combine different devices and sensors (such as GPS and diving activity) are enabling habitat relationships to be modelled in greater detail, allowing potential population consequences of wind farms to be better appraised. A refined spatial understanding can inform assessment of displacement and barrier effects (McDonald et al. 2012), while understanding of flight height, speed and diurnal activity from telemetry can inform predictions of collision risk (Cleasby et al. 2015 WarwickEvans et al. 2016). Tracking of the migratory and nonbreeding passage movements of marine birds crossing potential development areas can similarly be used to understand potential barrier and potential collision risk effects (Griffin et al. 2016).;Once a wind farm has been constructed, telemetry can also contribute substantially to the understanding of flight heights, travel speeds and likely avoidance behaviour of different species, which can be valuable in refining CRMs (Thaxter et al. 2018a). Further assessment of these key factors influencing collision for different species throughout the year is an important research gap to fill, and could lead to much needed sitespecific assessments for different species throughout the year. With the increasing longevity of tracking devices, such assessments are now possible for some species through the annual cycle, which will give a relative perspective of vulnerability between different lifehistory phases, such as breeding and nonbreeding periods (Thaxter et al. 2018b). Such approaches would be useful to inform both spatial planning ahead of development through sensitivity mapping, and also mitigation for wind farms already constructed in areas of potentially high vulnerability. Moreover, telemetry used in this way can determine the network of wind farms, and other marine activities, that a population may come into contact with, which is useful when considering potential cumulative impacts of developments on an international scale on protected populations. Further study of movements of different demographic components of populations (such as adults, immatures and juveniles) and of multiple populations would also refine predictions of the potential demographic impacts of developments.