Box 8.2 provides an example of how modifications to rotor length and the air gap may influence collision risk estimates, and considers how collision risk may differ when using small and large turbines within a site of fixed capacity. In reality, turbine size tends to be driven by the industry, with a push towards much larger structures that can deliver more power. For example, the averagesize of an installed offshore wind turbine was 5.9 MW in 2017, a 23 increase on 2016 (WindEurope 2018). Increasing the air gap is dependent on engineering and financial constraints, but may be an attractive option in order to achieve consent.;To demonstrate the effects of different rotor blade lengths and air gaps, a collision risk modelling exercise was undertaken for a hypothetical development of ten turbines populated by three common seabird species, Northern Gannet Morus bassanus, Lesser Blackbacked Gull Larus fuscus and Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis, which vary in morophology and flight activity parameters, as specified in Table 8.1. Option 2 of the Band model (Band 2012) was used in this exercise, in which the generic flight height distribution of the different species were derived from maximum likelihood estimates from Johnston et al. (2014a 2014b). For comparative purposes, monthly density estimates of 0.5 individualskm2 were assumed, even though none of the species would show constant density throughout the year as a result of dispersive or migratory movements, particularly in the case of Sandwich Tern, which is a summer migrant, present at breeding grounds for around 6 months. Avoidance rates were assumed to be zero to allow comparison across the different species, again despite these varying between species, although they are generally accepted to be in excess of 99 (Cook et al. 2012 Skov et al. 2018). A constant operational time of turbines for each month of 95 was adopted. Rotational speed, maximum blade width and pitch were also kept constant, at 11.5 rpm, 4.2 m and 10, respectively. With all other parameters effectively fixed, the influence of a variety of realistic turbine rotor radii (5080 m), given a fixed hub height of 100 m, and varying hub heights (60100 m), given a fixed rotor radius of 50 m, upon modelled predictions was assessed.