As the assessment process for the offshore wind industry has developed from that applied onshore, there has been recognition of the need to move beyond simple metrics, such as a simple summation of the number of birds predicted to be affected by a wind farm, and consider the populationlevel consequences using approaches such as population modelling. While ever more complex approaches to population modelling are developed, the widerapplicability of the different models is hindered by the availability of the necessary data. Until better data are more widely available, it is thought to be most appropriate to fall back on less complex approaches (e.g. Cook  Robinson 2017) while acknowledging the uncertainties in the outputs from these models.;In relation to both CRMs and population models, it is important to make use of the best available data. There is a welcome move towards making assessments more biologically realistic. However, it is important that these efforts are based on solid evidence, for example, not making assumptions about densitydependent processes operating on a population where these assumptions are not supported by empirical data. As with any models, it is important that efforts are made to validate those used in the assessment process. A failure to do this is likely to lead to problems as the offshore wind industry develops and stakeholders repeatedly return to the same questions about the accuracy and precision of model outputs during the consenting process.;This chapter is a summary of work that has been funded by and carried out on behalf of NERC, Marine Scotland Science, JNCC, The Scottish Wind Farm Bird Steering Group, The Crown Estate and BTO. We are also grateful to Alison Johnston, Liz Humphreys, Chris Thaxter, Niall Burton, Rob Robinson, James Pearce Higgins (BTO), Lucy Wright, Aly McCluskie, Rowena Langston (RSPB), Orea Anderson, Julie Black, Sue OBrien (JNCC), Tim Frayling, Melanie Kershaw, Richard Caldow (Natural England), Alex Robbins, Glen Tyler (SNH), Mark Trinder (MacArthur Green), Chris Pendlebury (Natural Power), Jared Wilson, Finlay Bennet, Ian Davies (Marine Scotland Science), Bill Band and Sue King for various discussions about different aspects of this work. Thanks also to Martin Perrow for his useful comments on a previous version of this chapter.