(Farnsworth 2005), suggesting that the number of flight calls only partly reflects actual bird density or species diversity. Secondly, flight calls do not allow discrimination of gender or age. Thirdly, the number of flight calls is often higher at night and in deteriorating weather (Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012). This may reflect an increase in percapita call rate as a result of a behavioural response to existing conditions that causes individual birds to call more frequently (i.e. a limited proxy of the number of individuals present), an increased number of birds at lower altitude, or a combination of both. Fourthly, despite the expanding use of flight call algorithms and automated analytical software, the analysis of acoustic data remains generally labour intensive owing to the need for verification of sound files by trained staff (Bardeli et al. 2010). According to Ross  Allen (2014), automated analytical software has been made available in an R package (flightcallr), which reduces the manual workload by over 80. Yet, a significant error probability remains associated with the use of this software. Automated analysis of bird sounds has also been implemented for realtime identification of songbird species in remote monitoring networks, such as the Automated Remote Biodiversity Monitoring Network (ARBIMON) (Aide et al. 2013). The rate of automated false positives or wrongly identified detections, however, is generally higher than in manual analyses (Hill  Hppop 2011). Random sampling of acoustic data by trained personnel is another approach used to ensure the quality of accurate species identification and to increase the efficiency of acoustic surveys (e.g. Wimmer et al. 2013). In all cases, acoustic surveys should include a rigorous post assessment quality review to maximise accuracy. Finally, although analytical programs are becoming more effective in terms of segregating calls from background noise, recordings of avian flight calls are frequently contaminated by noise generated by the wind turbines, as well as by wind and wave action, endemic in offshore environments. Farnsworth  Russell (2007), for instance, were unable to use sound recordings of frequencies below 6 kHz because of noise from waves. The use of dedicated software, such as Automatic Recording of Migrating Aves (AROMA), which separates bird calls from background noise, allows the analysis of species composition and migration phenology in combination with weather