More advanced systems designed for pile diameters up to 8.0 m (NMS8000, NMS8200) are thought to be even more efficient (H. van Vessem, personal communication 2018). The use of casings is dependent on sufficient storage and crane capacity on the installation vessel. Logistically, it may not be possible to transport very long sleeves in a vertical position, which would otherwise takeup most of the deck space if they were transported horizontally. As the weight of a casing increases with length, the applicability of the method is limited to water depths up to approximately 40 m. The deployment of large casings from floating vessels and at construction sites with varying water depths between the individual turbine positions remains challenging.;It can be seen that, in general, the DBBC and the NMS resulted in greater sound dampening compared to the BBC system. It should be noted that the sound reduction is frequency dependent, as between 20 Hz and approximately 1 kHz, the sound reduction increases with frequency. Above 1 kHz, the sound reduction is less, but still higher compared to the lower frequencies. This has implications for the impact assessment. Harbour Porpoises and Harbour Seals hear better at higher than at lower frequencies (Mhl 1968 Kastelein et al. 2002) and thus, for these species, the bubble curtain and the NMS are very efficient. As fish have a much smaller bandwidth of hearing, mainly below 1 kHz (see review by Gill et al. 2012), the reduction for them is less pronounced. It is therefore important to consider this frequency dependency of mitigation measures when trying to establish the effectiveness of NRTs (see Dhne et al. 2014 for a discussion on the topic).;The most widely used resonators in offshore pile driving are HSDs. In this approach, stationary airfilled balloons or robust foam elements of different sizes reduce underwater sound. The balloons cause sound reflections, resonant effects with high scattering and absorption and material damping effects. Typically, the HSD elements are arranged either in nets or in boxes and placed in the vicinity of the noise source (Kuhn  Bruns 2013 Lee et al. 2013 Elmer  Savery 2014). A winch frame above the water and a basket that can be lowered as ballast weight keep the elements in place around the pile (Figure 7.7). In contrast to the BBC concept, no compressed air is needed, and there is nearly no influence by currents. The sound mitigation strictly depends on the number, distribution and type of HSD elements used. The main advantage of the HSD system is that the technicians can adjust the sound