The construction, operation and decommissioning of offshore wind farms involve activities that generate underwater sound. Most concern has been raised about the impacts of noise during construction using impact piledriving. Piledriving noise can lead to displacement of marine mammals and some marine fish species. Physiological effects such as temporary hearing loss are likely if the acoustic dose at the receiver exceeds certain thresholds. In this chapter, the methods to mitigate sound during offshore windfarm construction are divided into three categories (1) source mitigation, comprising methods that reduce the sound directly at the source (2) channel mitigation, comprising methods that reduce the emitted underwater sound in the water column and (3) receiver mitigation, comprising methods that prevent the receiver from being close to the sound source. Both source and channelmitigation methods are confounded by the need to achieve a certain amount of hammer energy to penetrate the seabed. Source mitigation can involve adjustment of piling energy, pulse prolongation and use of alternative installation technologies such as vibrodriving, BLUE Piling or suction buckets. Channel mitigation involves bubble curtains, casings and resonators including hydrosound dampers. Bubble curtains and casings have proven to be very effective during piling. However, as they dampen higher frequencies moreeffectively than lower frequencies, this makes these methods more effective in reducing impacts on marine mammals than on fish. Receiver mitigation involves acoustic management devices aimed at deterring animals out of the danger zone, as well as safety zones, softstart and temporary piling restrictions. Several European countries that are developing offshore wind prescribe the application of one or several mitigation methods. It is suggested that the selection of the most appropriate mitigation measures in a particular circumstance should be based on a riskbased approach.;The construction, operation and decommissioning of offshore wind farms (OWFs) lead to the emission of underwater sound (Box 7.1). Adverse impacts on marine life triggered by unwanted sound, typically termed noise, have become a focus issue in marine environmental research and policy in the European Union (EU) and elsewhere (OSPAR 2009 Tasker et al. 2010 NMFS 2016 Nehls et al. 2019). This is because water is an excellent medium for sound transmission. Many forms of marine life such as fish and marine mammals, and perhaps even some invertebrates, rely on sound as their primary mode of communication, and for orientation and navigation (reviewed by Tyack  Clark 2000 Ladich et al. 2006 Edmonds et al. 2016 Hawkins  Popper 2016). Humangenerated underwater sound can affect marine life by leading to a variety of behavioural responses, masking important sounds and even causing hearing loss in the form of temporary or permanent hearing threshold shifts (TTS and PTS, respectively). At the very high levels received, sound can injure or kill marine life (see reviews by Richardson et al. 1995 Popper et al. 2004 Southall et al. 2007 McGregor et al. 2013). Offshore wind turbines are typically installed on substructures that are connected to the seabed. The most common substructure design is the monopile, a largediameter pile that is driven tens of metres into the seabed. Other design options include jackets, tripods, and gravitybased and floating foundations (Jameson et al. 2019). The installation of monopiles, jackets and tripods involves in most cases impact piledriving. This method is