Models, such as Band (2012), assume a constant flux of birds through a wind farm. Such models assume that there are X birds within the wind farm at any given time, each of which takes Y seconds to fly through the rotor. From these data, it is possible to estimate the total number of birds passing through a wind farm in a day or year based on the speed of the birds, with a mean flight speed typically assumed. However, if the birds are not flying at the reported or constant speed, or not commuting through the wind farm but instead moving tortuously within the area (Patrick et al. 2014), it is possible to overestimate the number of birds flying through the wind farm in a given period. As a consequence, the total number of collisions will be elevated, and these inflated estimates of collision rates can have serious consequences and costs for a windfarm developer. This is likely to be the case also for models that use data from vantagepoint surveys for example, the model developed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) uses data on the number of expected exposure events. It may be difficult to distinguish whether two observations of a bird are the same individual or different unless birds have distinct and unique marks. This distinction is important because each bird can only collide once, if it is assumed that collision equates to mortality, and if thenumber of birds using the area is overestimated, it is possible to overestimate the total number of collisions. Eichhorn et al. (2012) circumvent this limitation using an agentbased model to describe movements of individual birds through a landscape and applying a collision risk to each interaction of an individual with a wind turbine, although such a method can be computationally intensive.;Another limitation of CRMs is that they are frequently data hungry in situations where data availability is often limited. For example, mechanistic models such as Band (2012) have many input parameters relating both to the birds, such as flight speed and morphometrics, and to the turbines, including rotor speed and blade width (Figure 5.1). In relation to birds, there is still much to be learned about behaviour, and therefore knowledge of aspects required within the models, such as flight speed, is limited. This can have significant consequences for the consenting processes as stakeholders take different positions on what represents realistic values to use in the models and, therefore, what reflect realistic, but precautionary, assessments of collision risk (Box 5.1). This is improving with the development of individual tracking and telemetry technologies such as miniaturised GPS tags, but often data are limited to the breeding season. In addition, many of the turbines suggested for offshore projects are still under development and therefore only a design envelope can generally be provided, in which a range of values rather than specifics for any given parameter are presented and modelled. The approach developed by US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) removes some of these data requirements by using a Bayesian framework, although it relies on the ability to collect data on actual collisions to validate the model, and thus limits the approach to onshore sites. As a result, a Bayesian method is unlikely to be suitable for offshore sites without development of methods to collate data on collisions therefore, a mechanistic theoretical modelling approach will still be required, otherwise a constant collision risk is to be applied.;CRM is thus limited not only by a lack of data on model inputs, but also by a lack of opportunities for model validation. CRMs are rarely validated, but where they have been, predictions from EIA often show only a weak relationship with observed effects and predictor variables. Ferrer et al. (2012) found no relationship