Figure 6.1 Nocturnal longdistance migrants found as victims of collision with structures on the research platform FINO 2 in the German Baltic Seaafter a foggy night in August. Eleven Willow Warblers Phylloscopus trochilus, one Whinchat Saxicola rubetra and one Spotted Flycatcher Muscicapa striata are shown. (IfA); Speciesspecific behaviour at sea (see selection of behavioural seabird traits in Garthe and Hppop 2004) and responses to anthropogenic structures (Hill et al. 2014 Ronconi et al. 2015) clearly require adequate taxonomic identification of the birds recorded, although this may be no easy task considering the high number of species potentially occurring at OWFs (Hppop et al. 2006 Hill et al. 2014).  An ability to detect birds and bats under conditions of poor visibility (rain, fog or darkness) is needed as these conditions may match with maximum collision risk (e.g. Aumller et al. 2011) and, at night, with maximum migratory traffic (Hppop et al. 2006 Hill et al. 2014).  As bats and most migratory terrestrial birds are relatively small (100 g body mass), sensors with high optical resolution or limited weight (e.g. telemetry technology) are required (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011).  Critical components of collision models include flight altitude (Fijn et al. 2015), the proportion of birds at risk of collision with turbine blades (Fijn et al. 2015) and assessment of avoidance rates (Chamberlain et al. 2005 Masden  Cook 2016), as well as attraction rates, which have not yet been described. All the above require tracking and quantification of individual movements relative to a wind farm over time and spatial scales (e.g. Desholm  Kahlert 2005).  While much of the activity of many seabirds occurs during daylight hours, migration of many terrestrial landbirds also takes place at night, which thereby requires methods that enable continuous recording.  The remoteness of most OWFs demands the use of remotesensing techniques, including technologies requiring high data storage, and offering only very restricted maintenance and datatransfer opportunities.