Technological advances, in terms of habitat mapping, video monitoring and image recognition, will allow for more effectivedata collection. An increased monitoring effort in coastal areas will also render a better understanding of spatial and temporal variation that will allow researchers to plan and conduct monitoring programmes with a higher possibility of detecting any changes caused by OWFs. While there is a compelling lack of evidence for any direct negative effect from wind turbines, statistical power must improve within monitoring programmes, coupled with further investigation of the longterm effects from lowintensity noise, possibly through stress and impaired learning (Ebbesson  Braithwaite 2012). Further studies are also needed at a regional scale on the (cumulative) ecosystem effects from future largescale offshore wind developments, possibly using seascape risk analysis methods (Copping et al. 2014 Hammar 2014 Damian  Merck 2014). The relaxed fishing effort inside most wind farms, in particular the reduction or cessation of trawling, will probably have a large impact on the ecosystem, both at a local benthic scale and through reduced turbidity at larger scales where intense trawling is replaced by wind farms. However, since trawled seabeds are slow to recover (e.g. Olsgard et al. 2008) and little is understood about how a general increase in turbidity levels has affected the marine ecosystem, these effects will probably take some time to detect. But what is gained from relaxed benthic trawling can be lost through increased scour caused by turbine foundations. The increased turbidity caused by wakes from foundations in some seafloor sediment types and water depths has the potential to cause ecosystemscale longterm and cumulative impacts. In this regard, satellitederived image data have been used to monitor the increased suspended sediments at two OWFs in the Thames estuary (Vanhellemont  Ruddick 2014).;Efforts have also been made to model specific cumulative effects based on forecasts of future offshore wind developments. One such study focused on the regional ecosystemscale effect of the increased populations of filterfeeding mussels growing on wind farm turbine foundations (Slavik et al. 2018). This study concluded that the increase in Blue Mussel populations in a fully developed southern North Sea would have nonnegligible effects upon regional annual primary production of up to a few per cent, and cause larger changes (10) in the phytoplankton stock and thus upon water