Advances in modelling methods are also permitting investigation of flight altitude using GPS. For instance, RossSmith et al. (2016) used a statespace Bayesian modelling framework to account for some known sources of error, such as position of satellites in the sky, which allowed the production of flight height distributions and assessment of potential windfarm interactions. Differences in flight heights between day and night and between land, coast and atsea locations were revealed (RossSmith et al. 2016) (Box 4.3). Similar results were obtained from another Lesser Blackbacked Gull colony in Germany, where birds also flew lower over the sea than land and flew lower at night (interquartile range 2 to 8 m) than during the day (2 to 36 m) (Corman  Garthe 2014).;The Band (2012) CRM assumes a constant flux of birds and therefore the speed of birds flying through the wind farm and rotor swept zone is assumed to be constant. In reality, birds are unlikely always to conform to this assumption, with variations in behaviour being almost inevitable, such as tortuosity of track influencing speed (Masden  Cook 2016). Thus, instead of a static component for speed of birds, CRMs could be better informed by more precise species and locationspecific information on speed (similar to bespoke estimates on flight altitude, above) (A.Cook et al. 2012). Trajectory speed is recorded automatically through telemetry when datetime and position information are combined. Additional vectorbased instantaneous speeds, however, can also be calculated by some devices (e.g. Klaassen et al. 2012 Bouten et al. 2013).;The percentage of time in flight of different species has been reviewed in relation to OWFs (Garthe  Hppop 2004 Furness et al. 2013) because the higher the proportion of time that a species spends in flight, the greater will be its likely risk of collision (Band 2012 A.Cook et al. 2012). The extent of nocturnal flight activity also increases the degree of exposure to collision risk, although information on nocturnal activity is lacking for many species. It has been suggested that collision risk may be considerably increased in low light visibility (Garthe  Hppop 2004 Furness et al. 2013). Telemetry can provide data on flight activity and time budgets of marine birds throughout the day and night (Thaxter et al. 2010). The time spent in flight can be approximated for a given species simply by considering the minimum speeds thought to possible