Where efforts to minimise impacts have fallen short, or unanticipated impacts have arisen, measures to reduce impacts toacceptable levels are required. In relation to changing the distribution patterns of birds, this could include reducing the levels of displacement or attraction. As previously mentioned (see Wind farm design and micrositing and Selection of construction methods,above), vessel disturbance of sensitive species such as Red throated Diver (Loon) Gavia stellata could involve modifying vessel transit routes and maintenance schedules to avoid areas of importance for birds, or times when birds might be most sensitive to disturbance. This could be achieved by realtime bird observations from the vessels themselves to establish key areas and plan alternative routes, although it should be noted that particularly sensitive groups such as divers and some seaduck (such as scoters Melanitta spp.) may be flushed before they can be seen and avoided.;Few bird species are attracted to wind farms (see Windfarm design and micrositing, above), with only gulls potentially attracted at the risk of increased collision. Gulls are particularly well known for scavenging from fishing vessels (Camphuysen 1994) and if commercial fishing is restricted or discouraged or is impractical due to hazards within OWFs, then fewer gulls may enter a site (Lindeboom et al. 2011), thereby reducing the associated risks. Similarly, if the release of any organic waste from all vessels using the wind farm can be eliminated, there may also be less reason for scavenging gulls to enter wind farms.;In relation to migratory birds in particular, lighting appears to be the single most important attractant, with nocturnal migrants such as passerines appearing to be particularly drawn to the red lights that are commonly used (Erickson et al. 2001 Desholm 2006 Poot et al. 2008). Legislation usually dictates that offshore structures must have various forms of lowintensity lighting to aid aircraft and maritime navigation. Research into the effects of lighting at a North Sea gas rig on migrating birds inferred that changing the exterior lights for ones low in spectral red, thus appearing green, reduced the numbers of birds circling for prolonged periods or landing on the rig (van de Laar 2007 Poot et al. 2008). Moreover, birds appear to be are less disoriented by blue and green light containing less or no visible longwavelength radiation (Poot et al. 2008), and where green light was used, van de Laar (2007) suggested a minimum reduction of 50 of any