Geolocation suffers in accuracy of position (ca. 200 km), as issues of constant daylight or darkness around the poles and equal daylength at the equinoxes, respectively, prevent longitude and latitude being determined (e.g. Phillips et al. 2004). PTTs are advantageous in that they relay information directly to the observer, allowing completely remote capability. However, PTTs using the Doppler effect to determine position suffer from problems of accuracy, typically up to a few hundred metres (Weimerskirch et al. 1992), down to 150 m at best (Bridge et al. 2011). Further refinements in locational precision have been made through archival Global Positioning System (GPS) technology, which can have locational accuracy of up to a few metres (Bridge et al. 2011). Early GPS tags were expensive, but now a wider range of more affordable devices has allowed many individuals of study populations to be tracked over shorter periods. For example, using lowcost and lightweight archival GPS tags (see Figure 4.1), the collaborative Future of the Atlantic Marine Environment (FAME) project, at the time of writing, has tracked more than 2,000 individuals of 12 species from 40 marine bird colonies since 2010 (RSPB 2018). Archival telemetry devices require recapture of the bird to recover the data. Combined approaches, however, havebrought together the benefits of more accurate GPS position and the transmission advantages of satellite delivery systems such as Argos into one device (e.g. Microwave Telemetry 2018). GPS tags have also been developed that can record data very frequently, such as every few seconds, and relay that information back to the user remotely while birds are within range of a receiver (Bouten et al. 2013 UvABiTS 2018).;Further steps forward in remote capabilities have also been made through the use of Global System for Mobile Communications, previously Groupe Spcial Mobile, otherwise known as GSM mobile phone cellular networks using GPSGSM tags (Griffin et al. 2016 Scragg et al. 2016 Spiegel et al. 2017). These tags relay information directly to the user and, although dependent on network coverage, are useful in situations where there may be uncertainty over whether a bird will return within the vicinity of a local fixed shortrange receiver, or where access to locations to download data remotely from individual birds is not feasible. Further initiatives are continually being developed. For example, the Icarus (International Cooperation for Animal Research Using Space) project (Icarus 2018) aims to monitor the migratory movements of small animals and involves deployment of a satellite system on the International Space Station. National programmes are also being developed to facilitate monitoring of aquatic and marine animal movements for example, the US Animal Telemetry Network seeks to track the movements of species over different spatial and temporal scales for species across multiple sites, facilitating data sharing and interdisciplinary research (Block et al. 2016). A cited use of this approach is to ascertain potential interactions of species with wind farms. The Motus Wildlife Tracking System is another example of a network that uses radiotelemetry arrays to investigate the study of small animals, such as passerines fitted with tags of 0.21 g (Taylor et al. 2017). Indeed, the weight of all tags is continually reducing, with geolocators at 1 g and GPS devices 3 g now available, permitting ever more marine bird species to be considered for tagging (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011).