Sun glare or glint is more of an issue for digital stills than for video aerial surveys, because all operators use cameras in plan view, and thus they cannot be directed away from the sun, as is the case for angled cameras. Severe sun glare can cause significant problems with object detection and reduce the effective coverage of the survey. The DAISI and Aarhus University systems both use acomplex technique developed at NERI in which any glareaffected portions of images are cropped from overlapping sections, thus leaving most of the strip transect intact and free from significant glare (Groom et al. 2013). APEM avoids sun glare by not surveying during the middle part of the day and selecting, when possible, overcast days for surveying (Busch et al. 2014).;All stills digital aerial survey methods are operated in relatively light winds, up to Beaufort Force 4 (up to 8 ms) (Busch et al. 2014).;By the end of 2017, 4,149 turbines had been installed at 92 wind farms in the territorial waters of 11 European countries, mostly in the North and Baltic Seas, as the global focus of offshore wind (WindEurope 2018). Further expansion is envisaged by other European countries and in many others around the world, including China, Taiwan, Japan and the USA (Jameson et al. 2019). After two decades of offshore wind farming, developments of 2080 turbines have been constructed along the coasts in European waters. While planning of wind farm results in clustering of their locations in some countries, in others wind farms have a more scattered location. As displacement effects in some seabird species reach considerable distances (10 km) beyond the wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen 2019 Mendel et al. 2019), scattering small wind farms maximises border effects and thus total impacts on seabirds, and leads to a growing demand to account for cumulative effects.;To some degree, survey techniques have been standardised to allow direct comparison and even joint analysis of seabird surveys between research groups and countries. However, the scope of seabird surveys in relation to offshore wind should extend beyond projects to enable monitoring of seabird numbers and populations at regional and transboundary scales. There are risks that project oriented monitoring schemes may miss cumulative impacts even on regional scales if they are not synchronised in time and space, and countries intending to develop OWFs are encouraged either to