The use of acoustic sonars as a remote sensing technique for the detection of ecosystem functioning, in terms of smallscale seabed features, has been shown to be very effective. Beds of seagrass and Horse Mussel Modiolus modiolus, and the reefbuilding Ross Worm Sabellaria spinulosa have been monitored and evaluated by sonar technology in planned and operating wind farms (Pearce et al. 2014). Quantitative and qualitative habitat mapping, which included species distributions and densities over large areas, has been taken a step farther following the incorporation of biological data gathered for groundtruthing to provide a higher level of confidence. In the Thanet OWF in the UK, acoustic data sampling identified biogenic reef habitats formed by Sabellaria spinulosawhich, when combined with images from associated macrofauna, allowed for earlystage micrositing of the turbines. Ecosystem functioning of the site was then integrated in the project to cause minimal damage and habitat degradation during construction (Pearce et al. 2014). In this example, the industry worked closely with marine scientists and conservation agencies to ensure a sustainable construction process. The results of a beforeafter survey showed an increase in biogenic reefs and their associated macrofauna in the windfarm area, indicating a positive influence of the wind farm on ecosystem functioning. This is an important step not only for enhancing ecosystem monitoring methodologies, but also for future management of sensitive marine habitats in an emerging offshore windpower industry.;In another study, OWFs and ecosystem functioning have been reviewed and modelled with a focus on the conservation of valuable species and groups of fish and invertebrates (Raoux et al. 2017). An ecosystem model described the beforeandafter scenarios of ecosystem functioning and foodweb structures. The models showed a general increase in total ecosystem activity, a positive response of higher trophiclevel species and a change in keystone groups in response to the reef effect. Predictive models are already used as a complement to monitoring and field surveys, and the future use of ecosystem modelling seems highly likely to increase with the expansion of the offshore wind industry.;Although there will always be a temporary benthic footprint, there are numerous ways of avoiding, mitigating and compensating for negative impacts of offshore wind power on the seabed community. With respect to benthic organisms in particular, considerate micro siting of each foundation is probably the most effective means of reducing ecologically significant impact. In addition, the choice of foundation type plays a prominent role in determining the kind of benthic community that will develop around the new structures.