Where removal is ultimately required, it remains difficult to evaluate how long it may take habitats and ecosystems to recover to predevelopment characteristics following a sustained perturbation (May 2017). Indeed, the bathymetry around an OWF may have been altered beyond practicable restoration, with associated changes in benthic communities and food webs. Extensive rehabilitation efforts may be required at this point to aid in the return to normal ecosystem functioning, assuming that any changes to the habitat and associated wildlife assemblage are undesirable. There is growing evidence (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019) that positive reef effects will have occurred and a renewablestoreefs strategy may often be the most appropriate action from the perspective of biodiversity. In fact, many wind farms may have become so valuable that they would be considered as marine protected areas (Ashley et al. 2014). In this case, there will be an argument for only partial removal of the turbine foundations, perhaps above the sea surface. However, it remainsunclear whether, on balance, impacts are positive for seabirds as a group, primarily as there is a general lack of monitoring of indirect and ecosystem effects, and understanding remains limited (Perrow 2019).;Plans for mitigation, targeting potential risks according to relevant assessments and using the precautionary approach, are required during planning and consenting. Introducing preemptive compensatory conservation measures as early as possible to reduce the risk of unforeseen impacts and provide protection for the most vulnerable birds (and bats) is clearly desirable. But despite the variety of possible measures to reduce impacts, few have been implemented at OWFs to date. This seems largely due to uncertainty associated with the need for mitigation, the efficacy of measures, a lack of incentive or pressure to adopt mitigation from the outset, and potentially prohibitive risks and costs for developers. Various reviews provide differing recommendations, illustrating the lack of evidence and changes in thinking in regard to risk and mitigation (Hppop et al. 2006 Drewitt  Langston 2006 Edkins 2008 Cook et al. 2011 Marques et al. 2014 May et al. 2015). However, most studies agree that mitigation should be site and species specific.;To date, where mitigation has been applied, this has largely been in the planning phase, whereby important bird areas are identified and avoided at varying spatial scales. This offers a means of reducing risks by effectively decreasing the numbers of birds which may be subject to impacts within assessments. However, some of the other options discussed in this chapter may also be successful, as outlined in the following paragraphs.;Alternative construction methods, such as the use of nonpiled foundations, or noisemitigation systems including bubble curtains where piling is undertaken, offer scope to reduce indirect effects on the fish prey of seabirds. The timing of construction can also be modified or phased to avoid periods when species such as divers are most sensitive to displacement by vessels andor construction.