In general, the output from CRMs is a single estimate of the number of likely collisions. The uncertainty associated with these estimates is addressed to varying degrees within different CRMs. The majority of models applied onshore, such as Tucker (1996), Podolsky (2008), Holmstrom et al. (2011) and Smales et al. (2013), are deterministic and do not consider uncertainty within the model. The Band model is also deterministic but in the latest iteration of the model, the guidance provides a method to express the uncertainty associated with a collision estimate post hoc (Band 2012). By contrast, McAdam (2005) used a Monte Carlo model to consider joint distributions of wind speed and direction and distributions of flight height to produce collision risk estimates with associated measures of uncertainty. By using Bayesian methods, The US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) model naturally allows for the consideration of uncertainty. Statutory and nonstatutory stakeholders with a duty or interest in bird conservation have for some time called for uncertainty to be better reflected in the collision risk estimateswhich are presented as part of EIAs (Box 5.1), and recent extensions of the Band model enable this to be achieved (Masden 2015 McGregor et al. 2018). Including a measure of uncertainty in collision estimates moves CRM towards a riskbased framework, providing information not only on the magnitude of an event, but also on the probability of occurrence. Irrespective of how and whether uncertainty is incorporated, it is important to remember that CRMs are only a tool to aid in the assessment of impacts and management of wind farms. Because of the limitations of CRMs and the assumptions made within each, the model estimates provide a means of comparison between different development scenarios, but the estimates should only be considered indicative and never absolute. Acknowledging this, CRM outputs can then be used to assess the likely changes to population trends due to windfarm losses.;As part of the impact assessment process, it is important to determine what the populationlevel consequences of any collisions may be. This means that collision estimates must be considered in the context of the populations concerned. In many cases, the outputs from the collision models themselves are sufficient to allow stakeholders to conclude that there are unlikely to be any significant effects on the population(s) concerned. However, where predicted collision rates are high, further analyses are required to predict the likely populationlevel consequences of any collisions. A wide variety of tools have been proposed to do this in both an onshore and an offshore context. These range from very simple approaches to much more complex ones (Freeman et al. 2014 Humphreys et al. 2016 Cook  Robinson 2017 OBrien et al. 2017) (Figure 5.3). These approaches are discussed below.