To ensure that the expansion of offshore wind energy takes place in a sustainable and environmentally sound manner, most European countries developing offshore wind have undertaken action to mitigate noise. However, apart from a few common measures such as the softstart procedure at the beginning of piledriving operations, national approaches are highly diverse (Table 7.3), as also highlighted in a review of the practices in the UK and Germany for use in the developing market in the USA (BOEM 2018). In the UK, for example, the approach is simple in the sense that pile driving operations are subject to onsite marine mammal monitoring by trained observers. The piling team has to postpone the process if observers spot a marine mammal within a 500 mradius around the piling site. In addition, on a few occasions piling has been restricted in periods of peak fish spawning, as applied to the construction of Gwynt y Mr OWF (MMO 2014).;In Germany, the first step was the establishment of legislation that prohibits the installation of OWFs in Special Areas of Conservation (BMVBS 2009). In addition, an administrative regulation to prevent auditory injuries in marine mammals was first introduced in 2004, based on scientific background given by the Federal Environment Agency (UBA 2011), and became effective in 2008 (BSH 2008). The regulation defines noise thresholds for the singlepulse SEL and the peak SPL. Consequently, the use of noise reduction measures is mandatory for piledriving works in the German parts of the North and Baltic Seas in the conjunction of activities that would exceed the thresholds (Schorcht 2014). To avoid cumulative effects on marine mammals from noise disturbance, a Concept for the Protection of Harbour Porpoises from Offshore Wind Farm Construction Noise was adopted and introduced by the Federal Ministry for the Environment (BMU 2013). This concept prescribes that, with respect to certain defined disturbance radii that depend on the measured SEL at 750 m from any piling site, the cumulative acoustic disturbance in the German Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of the North Sea must be limited to a maximum of 10 of the entire (EEZ) area between September and April, and a maximum of 1 of a main concentration area around the Sylt Outer Reef between May and August. The tightening of the limit between May and August corresponds to the Harbour Porpoise mating and nursing season. The Harbour Porpoise is regarded as an indicator species in this context. As a result, parallel construction works need to be managed in a spatialtemporal way to keep displacement effects under a tolerable level.