Figure 6.12 Sketch of the calculation of empirical mesoavoidance (top) and microavoidance (bottom) in the ORJIP Bird Collision Avoidance study. For mesoavoidance, the right panel describes observed track length density, while the left panel describes the hypothetical scenario with the same total track length as observed, but without the wind turbines. For microavoidance (bottom), arrows represent bird movement in relation to the rotor, shown as a dark blue ellipse, with the addition of a 10 m buffer, shown as a red ellipse. The light blue arrow represents wind direction. Seabirds have been observed to adjust their flight to avoid individual blades (dotted arrow), or not to adjust, but cross the rotor and survive (solid arrow), or, onrare occasions, collide (double arrow).;Microavoidance was quantified by calculating the proportion of birds adjusting their flight path to the presence of blades to all birds entering the rotorswept zone. Adjustments are assessed by analysing bird movements on the video documentation in relation to the rotor, represented as a dynamic ellipse, surrounded by a 10 m buffer that changes its orientation with the wind direction.;The development of the MUSE system during ORJIP has facilitated the possibility to perform continuous and automated monitoring of bird behaviour in OWFs at the species level. Thus, the development of this technology will potentially benefit both research, by allowing data collection in a wide range of weather conditions, and industry, by enhancing compliance with regulatory requirements.;The Wind Turbine Sensor Unitwas developed by R. Albertani and colleagues at Oregon State University and consists of three sensor components (Suryan et al. 2016). The system includes accelerometers and contact microphones mounted at the base of each blade that are designed to continuously register collisions of animals with turbines. The system also includes a stereovisual camera and an infrared camera, both mounted on the nacelle, for tracking birds and bats, that record target distance and size. Finally, two nacellemounted microphones (one acoustic, one ultrasound) monitor bird and bat calls. Data are managed with the aid of a buffer ring setup that, when triggered by a presumed collision event registered by any of the sensors, automatically records all systems data occurring 10 seconds before and 10 seconds after the event. The complete system was tested in two field campaigns during which empty and waterfilled tennis balls were shot under different conditions against an experimental wind turbine in