Most of these methods need a minimum number of sightings to calculate a g(0) value. In areas with a low density of the target species and in comparatively small survey areas this poses a major challenge, which often holds true for windfarm developments. If it is not possible to obtain a g(0) value, or a value of one of its components, it is important to state clearlythat any estimates of abundance are minimum estimates.;Finally, a successful survey depends on the application of good field methods. Survey protocols for observers must be clearly defined. They need to include a description on how observers cover the search area and how measurements to determine the perpendicular distance of the sighting to the trackline are taken. Information on sightings typically details species identification, group size and composition, including the presence of calves or different sexes, when this can be determined, and behaviour. Equally important is the documentation of sighting conditions, such as sea state and visibility, throughout the survey. It is essential to provide sufficient training to observer teams before surveys, as well as monitoring observer performance during surveys, so that biases can be quantified, errors minimised and data collected consistently.;Distance sampling protocols are regularly applied during boatbased surveys to determine the abundance of cetaceans (e.g. Hammond et al. 2002 2013 2017 Gerrodette  Forcada 2005 Barlow  Forney 2007 ien 2009 Pike et al. 2009). When the aim is to assess a population that ranges over a large area, such as the Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena in the North Sea (see Figure 2.9), several vessels can be deployed to cover a large proportion of the study area simultaneously. In general, vessels may be of any size, noting that smaller vessels may not be able to accommodate a second platform and, therefore, values for g(0) might not be determined. A good rule is for three observers to be active, one monitoring the trackline (0) and two observing 90 on both port and starboard of the trackline thus, the 180 area to the front of the vessel is continually scanned. If there are insufficient team numbers to allocate a dedicated trackline observer, two visual observers should overlap their observation zone by 1020 across the trackline, thus providing additional visual coverage of this critical area. A data recorder notes all effort and environmental conditions throughout the survey and records all sightings. The data recorder should not simultaneously conduct visual observations, as sightings are likely