As outlined by Molis et al. in Chapter 6, a variety of methods have been used to assess avoidance behaviour and collision risk from direct observation, and in combination with radar (Petersen et al. 2006 Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Plonczkier  Simms 2012) culminating in advanced combinations of radar and video and thermal cameras in digital communication, used in conjunction with laser rangefinders (Skov et al. 2018). However, relatively few studies at OWFs have yet to investigate directly the avoidance behaviour and potential collision risk of marine birds using bird borne telemetry. The radiotelemetry of Little Terns provided some insight into movements of tracked individuals in relation to the wind farm (Box 4.6), but the birds did not routinely enter the site and spend much time there. In contrast, the Lesser Blackbacked Gulls tracked by Camphuysen (2011) frequently entered the operational Egmond aan Zee and Prinses Amalia wind farms, which enabled a spatial intensity risk map to be produced derived from flight heights and locational positions. However, it is the extension of the work detailed in Box 4.3 on Lesser Blackbacked Gulls to other colonies in the UK, including South Walney, a part of the Morecombe Bay and Duddon Estuary SPA for the species that is close (20 km) to five operational wind farms, that has enabled the development of threedimensional tracking for potential assessment of avoidance behaviour (Thaxter et al. 2018a). Combining information on flight altitude and geographic position within and outside wind farms, Thaxter et al. (2018a) examined the movements of birds at different scales, including macroavoidance (windfarm scale) and mesoavoidance (avoidance of rows of turbines once in a wind farm), with potential to consider microavoidance (lastminute nearscale response) (see May 2015 for definitions). Results from a subset of birds showed no apparent macroscale avoidance of wind farms (Figure 4.12), but once within the wind farm there was more than 50 overlap with the vertical rotorswept zone, which is higher than in previous studies (Box 4.3). However, importantly, very few GPS locations were recorded within the threedimensional rotorswept volume around turbines, with this being significantly different from a random distribution and indicating an apparent mesoavoidance response (Thaxter et al. 2018a). Overall differences