Predator control is of huge importance in seabird conservation, from highprofile eradications of introduced and invasive rodents from entire islands (e.g. Martin 2015) to more mundane control of native predators at nature reserves (see examples in Cabot  Nisbet 2013). In addition, where predators are also birds of conservation interest, diversionary feeding may be successful in reducing lossesof chicks of the desirable seabird species (Smart  Amar 2018). Directly feeding the seabird of interest does not appear to be undertaken in the manner of feeding scavenging raptors (Gonzlez et al. 2006 GarcaHeras et al. 2013), although it is easy to see that adaptable scavengers such as gulls and skuas may respond favourably to handouts. The use of this strategy needs to be carefully monitored, however, as although it can be successful in raising productivity (Gonzlez et al. 2006), poorquality individuals may be disproportionately favoured (GarcaHeras et al. 2013). The removal of predators coupled with habitat management often leads to rapid recolonisation of previously affected seabird species and, as such, reintroduction is generally unnecessary.;In relation to all these possibilities, Furness et al. (2013b) provide a comprehensive review of potential compensatory and mitigation measures for OWF impacts on a variety of key seabirds species around the British Isles. The most costeffective options were identified as (1) provision of nest platforms for Redthroated Divers (2) eradication of alien invasive mammalian predators on islands with Manx Shearwater Puffinus puffinus colonies (3) supplementary feeding of breeding pairs of Arctic Skuas Stercorarius parasiticus (4) culling of breeding Lesser Blackbacked Gulls Larus fuscus, European Herring Gulls L. argentatus and Great Blackbacked Gulls L. marinus, which may be significant predators of other seabirds (Figure 8.10), while introducing predatorproof fencing around mainland colonies of these gulls subject to fox predation (5) closure of Lesser Sandeel Ammodytes marinus and European Sprat Sprattus sprattus fisheries in UK waters to increase productivity and survival of Blacklegged Kittiwakes Rissa tridactyla, Common Guillemots Uria aalge and Razorbills Alca torda (6) predatorproof fencing to exclude foxes from affected Sandwich Tern colonies and engineering to reduce the risk of tidal flooding where this is an issue and (7) eradication of American Mink Mustela vison from islands with Common Tern colonies and deployment of predator proof nesting rafts. It is of note, however, that windfarm related impacts at a population scale have not yet been demonstrated for any of these species, although the level of displacement for Red throated Diver (Mendel et al. 2019) points to such an effect.