Wind farms can potentially affect marine mammals at any stage of project development. This chapter outlines the range of monitoring methods that can be used to investigate changes in marine mammal abundance, distribution and behaviour, over long and shortterm periods, in order to evaluate both windfarm impacts and the effectiveness of mitigation strategies put in place during construction activities. Data on population abundance and distribution over a larger spatial scale are typically obtained from systematic surveys from vessels or aircraft limited to periods of good weather and daylight hours. Such visual surveys provide good spatial coverage in a relatively short time, thus presenting a snapshot of marine mammal occurrence and distribution. Towed passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) arrays that record marine mammal vocalisations can also be used in poorvisibility conditions at night or during rough seas. Detection of finescale changes in habitat use or behaviour, however, is best undertaken through continuous monitoring with static or fixed PAM, provided the species under study is acoustically distinctive and vocalises regularly. Such devices generally archive data for later retrieval, although new realtime data transmission devices are becoming available. Acoustic monitoring can also provide information on behaviour, such as foraging, and may be the only feasible method where populations occur at low density or are cryptic. Ideally, a combination of both visual and acoustic monitoring methodologies provides the best spatial and temporal coverage. Telemetry can beused to great effect, particularly on pinnipeds. Other tools, such as unmanned aerial vehicles, also show promise. Regardless of the technique used, the overriding challenge is that sufficient data must be collected so that robust statistical analyses can be performed. Therefore, welldesigned surveys and the evaluation of the likely statistical power of any anticipated analyses are of paramount importance when selecting survey methods.;Offshore windfarm (OWF) development began in European waters in the early 2000s and has been concentrated in the North and Baltic Seas (Figure 2.1). Starting in 2015, the number of developments increased dramatically, and total capacity had quadrupled by the end of 2017. At the beginning of 2018, more than 4,000 turbines were operational, comprising 92 wind farms located across the jurisdiction of 11 countries. The first installation of a floating wind farm was completed in Europe in 2018. China was the next economy to invest heavily in this industry, and its first wind farm came online in 2010. Today, China has some 260 turbines located across eight wind farms. The USAs first operational OWF came online at the end of 2016, with several additional largescale developments proposed for the US east coast to be initiated in 2019 (Massachusetts Clean Energy Center 2018). Taiwan will also see major windfarm development in the next decade, with its first demonstration projects coming online by 20192020 and an additional 11 projects having been approved in 2018. Globally, wind farms are located within 50 km of the shore and within the 50 m depth contour, although most are closer or in shallower water. As technology improves, however, locations farther offshore will become more feasible for example, developments proposed for European waters are some 200 km from land. Most wind farms comprise monopile structures, the installation of which, through pile driving, can cause considerable increases in underwater noise levels and therefore has the potential to detrimentally affect marine species. Marine mammals are particularly sensitive to underwater noise and have been a primary