Population models can be used to estimate the size, or growth rate, of a population through time both with and without the impact of a management intervention. The metric is then assessed in relation to either the counterfactual of the impacted to unimpacted population size (CIUn) or growth rate (CIU). These counterfactuals could be estimated at a fixed point in time or at a series of intervalsthroughout the lifetime of a project. These metrics are assessed over a scale from 0 (severe impact) to 1 (no impact). These approaches appear less susceptible to the problems associated with ABC and DPD, although they do retain some (limited) sensitivity to the chosen demographic parameters (Cook  Robinson 2017).;As alluded to above, regardless of the approach used to quantify the populationlevel consequences of windfarm impacts, there is a need to determine whether or not these consequences are acceptable. However, it is important to take a step back and question whether such a delineation is appropriate in the first place. Population trends vary both between species and between colonies (JNCC 2015). Similarly, in conservation terms, not all populations may be of equal importance. Consequently, at a societal level, people may be willing to accept a greater populationlevel impact where that population is increasing, or where it involves a geographically widespread andor abundant species. Ultimately, it may be necessary for decisions to be made about what is or is not acceptable on a casebycase basis. This then becomes a question about what is important at a societal level, and decisions should be made in consultation with a range of relevant stakeholders and legislation.;As individual projects become operational, a better understanding about the impacts they have on species and populations can be gained (e.g. Dierschke et al. 2016). This shifts the focus of assessment towards considers the cumulative impact of multiple developments (Maclean et al. 2014 Goodale  Milman 2016 Thaxter et al. 2017), particularly given that many species face pressure from multiple anthropogenic activities (Burthe et al. 2014). Often, assessments only consider developments of a similar type for example, a windfarm cumulative impact assessment (CIA) will consider other wind farms or renewable energy developments at most, but not other anthropogenic activities such as fisheries or oil and gas installations (Masden et al. 2010). In addition, the assessments are often restricted in spatial and temporal extent and with regard to the species or receptors included. As a consequence,