Regardless of the approach used to assess any populationlevel consequences of the impacts associated with OWFs, careful consideration needs to be given to the interpretation of their outputs. Ultimately, these outputs are going to be used by decision makers to determine whether or not the impacts associated with a wind farm can be deemed acceptable. For this reason, despite the issues listed in the previous section, approaches such as PBR, which offer a clearly defined threshold of acceptability, are attractive to decision makers and developers alike. However, a variety of metrics are available with which to quantify the outputs from PVAs and communicate likely windfarm impacts (e.g. Green et al. 2016 Cook  Robinson 2017). Ideally, models used to derive these metrics should incorporate the impacts associated with all effects associated with the wind farm, including displacement (Vanermen  Stienen 2019), and not relate solely to collision. However, it is recognised that determining the consequences of some of these effects, and quantifying them, can be difficult (Humphreys et al. 2015). For example, the extent to which displacement contributes to increased energetic costs, reduced survival andor reduced productivity is unknown and can only be estimated, such as by modelling changes according to the distribution of important resources such as prey (Freeman et al. 2014).;Acceptable biological change (ABC) was set out as a method for assessing the population impact of an OWF by Marine Scotland (2015). Using terminology from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), ABC allows for a change of up to onethird in the probability of a defined target being achieved as a result of the impact of a management intervention, which is classed by the IPCC as representing an outcome that is as likely as not (Mastrandrea et al. 2010). This was applied to different population model metrics, for example, population size (ABCn) or the probability of the population growth rate () being less than 1 (ABC1). This is binary, with impacts assessed as 1 (acceptable) or 0 (not acceptable). However, this approach has been widely