description of the ceilometer technique using spotlights (e.g. portable version by Gauthreaux 1969) has been omitted from this review because spotlights tend to attract birds and bats either directly or indirectly through enhanced food supply from light attracted insects. As the potential detection bias has not been rigorously quantified, the ceilometer technique is no longer considered relevant for quantifying nocturnal bird activity. In contrast, the moon provides the strongest ambient, nighttime light source and moonwatching, used in ornithological research to quantify bird migration since the early 1950s (Lowery 1949), is still viewed as a valuable technique. In this, the silhouettes of bats and birds are visible with a spotting scope as they pass in front of the illuminated disc of the moon, providing a means of detecting and generally quantifying the animals present under pristine environmental conditions such as clear skies (Lowery 1949 Liechti et al. 1995). However, range is restricted to a few hundred metres owing to the difficulties in discriminating bat from bird silhouettes beyond 150 m (Kunz et al. 2007). Moonwatching can therefore yield passage rates, expressed as number of animals per time. Estimates on flight height are also possible, but are rather crude and strongly observer dependent. The advantages of moonwatching compared to more automated methods include low equipment cost, a lack of artefacts caused by artificial lights and no enhanced insect contamination of samples. The primary disadvantage of this labour intensive method comprises limited opportunities for observations, set by astronomical and weather parameters (Kunz et al. 2007). Furthermore, Liechti et al. (1995) report on a conspicuous observer bias, with beginners spotting at most half of the bats and birds seen by experienced observers and a distancedependent spotting efficacy among the latter. A key constraint is also that the passage rates derived from the analysis are only relative to other moon watching surveys, and while they may help to document high versus lowactivity nights, they are limited in providing a quantitative estimate of migration intensity. Conditions for moon watching are astronomically restricted to about four sufficiently moonlit nights per month and further constrained in meteorological terms by the need for cloudless conditions and good weather. The opportunity to directly observe bird collisions through moonwatching is thus extremely limited, which renders moonwatching unsuitable for assessing collisions of birds or bats with turbines.;The feasibility of fluorescent light detection and ranging (lidar) to serve in nocturnal bird classification has been explored by Lundin et al. (2011) and Brydegaard et al. (2010), who found that birds could be crudely classified up to 100 m in darkness. Alternative approaches to quantify nocturnal bird and bat activity include the use of nightvision equipment that amplifies available natural visible light (i.e. moon and stars) or equipping infraredlight sensitive video cameras with infraredlight emitting sources (Figure 6.2). Shortwave infrared radiation is invisible to birds (Hecht  Pirenne 1940 Goldsmith 2006), minimising potential attraction influences due to the effects of visible light, which are known to be an issue in ceilometer surveys (Bruderer et al. 1999). Individual observers may carry nightvision goggles or use scopesupported options to directly spot birds and bats. Socalled thirdgeneration devices are available with 30,00050,000fold light amplification capabilities. Nightvision devices as well as video cameras with active infrared illumination allow discrimination between bats and small birds at distances up to 150 m, whereas larger birds can be identified up to a distance of several hundred metres (Schulz et al. 2014). Measures obtained by these types of devices include the relative abundance of passing bats and birds per unit time as well as their flight direction and behaviour, while taxonomic identification is mainly based on behavioural traits. A rough assessment of flight height is possible, but its accuracy is strongly observer dependent.