During linetransect surveys, one of the assumptions is that all animals present on the transect line are detected g(0)1, where g(x) is the probability of detecting an animal at perpendicular distance x. This assumption is rarely true for cetaceans, as a proportion of sightings will always be missed. There are two main reasons for this (1) animals are present but are missed by the observer, known as perception (or observer) bias or (2) animals are not detected as they cannot be seen as they are diving, known as availability bias.;It is possible to correct for the proportion of missed animals so that absolute abundance estimates can be calculated for example, if g(0)0.30, this means that 30 of all animals present on the transect line are sighted and the relative abundance estimate derived from the survey data can be corrected accordingly. The g(0) factor should ideally be assessed per sighting condition, as a change in environmental factors, such as wind speed or turbidity, will have an impact. It is also specific for species (or taxa) and observers or observer teams.;In many instances, the perception bias alone can be reduced by using experienced observers, training, appropriate survey protocols (e.g. rotating observers to avoid fatigue), and suitable survey platform configuration and speed. The probability of an observer detecting an animal can be quantified by testing how many visible animals are missed. This has been done, for example, using a second independent observer team in a plane that covers the same field of view (e.g. Palka 2005 Thomson et al. 2012). The ratio of animals seen by one team, but missed by the other team, provides a correction factor for the number of undetected animals that was available to be seen.;The availability bias is sometimes quantified by investigating the behaviour of a species to determine how much time it spends at the surface (or close to the surface). For example, for Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena, several studies have recorded breathing rates from observations (Barlow et al. 1988) or have used diving data obtained from