As collision risk is almost invariably a critical part of wind farm EIA, it is crucial that the density of flying birds is accurately estimated. However, while the box method allows relative measures of flying bird abundance to be estimated, which may be perfectly adequate for the purposes for which it was designed, there are conceptual issues with its use to provide accurate density measures. To begin with, the maximum distance across a 300300 m box at 45 from the surveyor is actually 424 m (Figure 3.7), with 20 of the area to be sampled in the box beyond 300 m, the distance set for transect width perpendicular to the vessel. This means that the surveyors are required to continually adjust the distance at which they should be scanning in order to place birds within an imaginary box. Even if this could be achieved, surveyors aretherefore required to detect all flying birds irrespective of size and colour, position relative to the observer (perpendicular, flying away) and flight behaviour (high against the sky, low against the sea surface or a combination of the two) to a distance of 424 m. In the case of Barbraud  Thiebot (2009), the detection function by eye was virtually 1 for a variety of species at a distance of 100 m, but ranged from 0.87 for large (albatrosssized) species down to 0.69 for small species (small petrels) at 300 m. In other words, in this case, 100 detection of any bird group was not achieved up to 300 m. It is also important to note that Barbraud  Thiebot (2009) surveyed from a relatively high eyeheight of 17.5 m, much greater than the 58 m that is typical of seabird surveys at offshore wind farms, and probabilities of detection from smaller platforms may be lower although this may be offset by generally better conditions in windfarm studies in the North Sea for example, compared to the southern Indian Ocean. Potentially, all birds could be seen beyond 300 m using binoculars, but surveyors would still be required to effectively place birds at different distances.;A conceptually easier alternative to the box is simply to use a radial (arc) snapshot with a fixed distance such as 300 m or less for smallbodied species, as has been adopted in a number of studies (e.g. Spear et al. 2004 Parsons et al. 2015). Indeed, the use of radial snapshots was subsequently approved by regulators and their advisory bodies in England, Wales and Scotland for use in seven different wind farms, including three of the original nine Round 3 zones in the UK (e.g. Centrica Energy 2007 Dudgeon Offshore Wind Limited 2010 Seagreen Wind Energy 2012).;However, to the authors knowledge, there had been no comparative test of the counts and densities supplied by the two different techniques until their preliminary investigation in the Firth of Forth off the east coast of Scotland in October 2017. In the oneday survey aboard a 17 m Severn class ex lifeboat with an eyeheight of 6.1 m, a transect length of 148 km was surveyed using 283 snapshots at fixed 500 m intervals, adopting both box and radial snapshot methods