Flying birds tend to be excluded from distance analyses owing to their movements and potential for attraction to the survey vessel. Furthermore, appropriate distance data are not routinely collected during ESAS snapshot counts, as birds are not assigned to the radial distance bands required for pointsample analyses (see Box 3.5). Instead, it is assumed that all flying birds within a given box are seen and that there is no reduction in detectability with distance, even for very inconspicuous species, although Barbraud  Thiebot (2009) show that this is unlikely to be the case for many species and therefore densities may be underestimated.;However, distance corrections using point transect analyses can be performed where radial snapshots and distance bands have been adopted (see Spear et al. 2004) (Box 3.5). For point transect analyses using a radial snapshot approach that surveys a semicircle, rather than a full 360 scan, a sampling fraction of 0.5 needs to be applied. In pointtransect analysis the areas surveyed in each radial band will increase with distance from the vessel. Thus, while the detectability of the birds may decrease with distance, there are proportionally more birds available to detect. Conversely, the nearest band should contain the smallest numbers of birds, but they should all be detected. This means that a plot of probability density should approximate to a normal distribution, with most birds detected at an intermediate distance from the vessel. If there is positive movement bias to the vessel, that is, if birds are attracted (as is often suggested for large Larus gulls), then the distribution of probability density would be skewed to the left. Alternatively, if birds are repelled, then the probability density would be skewed to the right. Either attraction or repulsion will result in biased density estimates.;Trial analyses of birds in flight in radial snapshots, based on survey data from the Celtic Sea, UK, identified clear decreases in detectability with distance for some seabird species such as the smallsized (27 g and 38 cm wingspan BTO 2018) European Storm Petrel Hydrobates pelagicus (n77 observations) as well as the mediumsized (690 g and 67 cm wingspan BTO 2018) Common Guillemot Uria aalge (n313 observations) (Figure 3.6). The probability density functions for these species appear to be reasonable as they approximate to a normal distribution and reflect the limited availability of birds close to the vessel and reduced detectability with distance (Figure 3.6). Observations at the same site supported the view