The flight height of birds is a key factor in determining their collision risk with turbines offshore (Furness et al. 2013 Cook et al. 2014 2018). Information on flight heights has historically been derived from boatbased surveys (Johnston et al. 2014 Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) or from vertical radar studies (see Molis et al., Chapter 6), but is increasingly being recorded through aerial digital survey methods (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3). Birdborne telemetry, however, provides the potential for estimating flight altitude across all height ranges and weather conditions, forexample using altimeters measuring differences in barometric pressure, and through GPS, which record geographic position in three dimensions. Altimeters have been used to estimate flight heights of a range of marine bird and waterbird species, including Whooper Swans (Pennycuick et al. 1999), American White Pelicans Pelecanus erythrorhynchos (Shannon et al. 2002), Redfooted Boobies Sula sula (Weimerskirch et al. 2005) and Northern Gannets (Cleasby et al. 2015).;Altimeters have also been used to assess windfarm interactions, such as by Cleasby et al. (2015), who used dual attachment of separate GPS tags and altimeters to determine threedimensional movements of Northern Gannets from Bass Rock in Scotland. In that study, flight heights were higher during periods of foraging than commuting, and spatially explicit flight heights, when combined with estimates of density of birds in a CRM, revealed that conventional flight height distributions from speciesspecific representations may underestimate potential collisions. The altimeters used by Cleasby et al. (2015) weighed 18 g however, further miniaturisation is enabling sensors to be incorporated directly into GPS tags, which would then allow flight heights of lighter species to be investigated using altimetry.;Altitude has also been recorded directly from GPS and GPSPTT tags, for example for Frigatebirds Fregata spp. (de Monte et al. 2012), Lesser blackbacked Gulls (Klaassen et al. 2012 Corman  Garthe 2014) and Barheaded Geese Anser indicus (Bishop et al. 2015). GPSderived altitude can be used to estimate potential interaction of species with the vertical rotorswept zone of turbines (e.g. Corman  Garthe 2014 Griffin et al. 2016) (Box 4.5), but may also suffer from vertical measurement error of around 1520 m (e.g. Corman  Garthe 2014). While this error seems problematic, it is dependent on a number of factors, including the sampling rate of tags (see Thaxter et al. 2018a for further discussion). Faster sampling protocols recording more fixes over a shorter period can increase the precision of estimates (Bouten et al. 2013 Thaxter et al. 2018a). This has facilitated the use of GPS altitude to study three dimensional activity of Lesser Blackbacked Gulls at operational OWFs in northwest England at very high resolution (e.g. at 10 second rates Thaxter et al. 2018a).