The methods described thus far, apart from visual daytime and nighttime observations, principally use stationary receivers, which enable detection of flying animals over technically limited scales, from several kilometres to more than 100 km in the case of radar, to less than 100 m in the case of visual and thermal imaging and bioacoustics. Individual tracking follows a different approach by attaching devices on to individuals to trace their movements in space and time (Burger  Shaffer 2008 Exo et al. 2013 McKinnon  Love 2018). Animal tracking gives insight into individual behaviour, including habitat use, migration and responses to environmental cues. The technological development of animal tracking went through three stages. First, animal localisation was realised with radio (or other) beeper transmitters that were fitted to animals. The emitted signals were initially detected with handheld and later also with automated antennae. To improve animal tracking, signals were simultaneously detected with directional antennae deployed at different sites to localise individuals via triangulation. At the second stage, dataloggers were deployed that stored different parameters, such as flight directions and durations,light levels (in geolocators) or Global Positioning System (GPS) positions. For data retrieval, however, animal recapture is mandatory. The latter drawback was solved with the use of devices of the third stage that transmit data either continuously, or in data packages upon availability of an internet connection, or on demand to specialpurpose receivers.;Detail on the use of telemetry and tracking in the study of bird and bat interactions with wind farms is provided by Hein (2017) and Smallwood (2017) in relation to onshore, and Thaxter  Perrow (Chapter 4) specifically in relation to birds offshore. Further information on the use of available technology, particularly in relation to bats and small migratory landbirds, as opposed to seabirds and larger migrant waterbirds (Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4), is provided below. The suitability of tracking devices for studying wind farm and birdbat interactions depends on two major aspects. First, adequate tag characteristics, such as mass, attachment mode and placement, are needed to minimise deleterious effects on the performance and fitness of birds and bats. The size of a radio transmitter is a compromise between operational tag life, transmitter power (and hence detection range) and length between signal bursts (i.e. signal resolution) on the one hand, and tag mass (mainly battery) on the other hand. The ongoing technological progress, however, will spur tag miniaturisation, which should lead to adequate tagging of even the smallest migratory animals prone to interacting with wind turbines, such as passerines, bats and insects (Box 6.2).;The Motus Wildlife Tracking System is a research approach established by Bird Studies Canada in partnership with Acadia University, among others, and involves development of an international, collaborative radiotracking network (Taylor et al. 2017). The programme network allows individual researchers to study individual movements of small birds, bats and larger insects via a direct, open source access to coordinated automated radiotelemetry arrays. Spatially deployed automated receivers are used in conjunction with