 At the same time, the proficiency of MSP should not be overestimated. The obvious and tremendously complex requirements to be considered for the marine realm leading to a potential horrendogram, as espoused by Boyes amp Elliot (2016), might otherwise easily paralyse MSPs core assignments. In conclusion, spatial planning both onshore and offshore, has always, perhaps invariably, been somewhat delayed, meaning it has a latecomer stigma in terms of its actual governing capabilities. For instance, Hurlimann amp March (2012) identified spatial (landbased) planning for climate change adaptation as often being passive instead of proactive in shaping change and modifying markets. Proactive adaptation therefore remains a key challenge for spatial planning (Hurlimann amp March 2012). A major challenge for early and to another degree contemporary MSP has been its emergence into a highly dynamic, but in many ways rather unexplored environment (Ehler et al. 2007). Jentoft amp Knol (2014, p. 4) argue that MSP is applied to social and ecological systems  that are inherently diverse, complex and dynamic, and work at multitude scales MSP deals with wicked problems, finding users in a situation where more space for one means less for other users.;Integrated and participatory planning processes therefore need their time. On one hand, marine ecosystems first have to be mapped in a suitable manner for spatial planning, but on the other hand understanding of the environmental consequences of marine exploitation or the use of new technologies, such as OWFs, needs to be informed by empirical and monitoring results in order to undertake meaningful mapping and assessment. This introduces the classic chicken or egg syndrome. Data collection and monitoring at sea are also costly and time intensive (BreuchMoritz 2018). Ultimately, much will depend on the involved agencies and stakeholders capacities and willingness to establish institutional learning processes, with ongoing and future amendments of initial MSP plans as obvious test beds. As MSP is a rather novel planning task for most agencies, the risks of path dependency might be less prevalent, meaning that learning may be more likely to happen.