Farreaching noise reduction strategies to protect marine mammals, especially the Harbour Porpoise (Figure 9.7) have been pursued, specifically in terms of OWF piledriving effects (see Thomsen amp Verfu, Chapter 7). The Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) has published a noisemitigation strategy for the German North Sea, which foresees the establishment of a noisemitigation zone from September to April. To avoid populationlevel disturbance of Harbour Porpoise, the noiseprotection strategy sets a threshold for the extent of piledriving affected areas in the EEZ. This states that at any one time, a maximum 10 of the North Sea EEZ can be affected by defined noise levels radiating from OWF under construction (BMU 2013 Bellmann et al. 2017). Standard threshold values for noise during OWF construction were introduced in 2003 on advice from the Federal Environment Agency (UBA). Based on new research, the recommended thresholds (dual criteria) have been part of OWF licensing since 2008 (UBA 2008). The incidental provision number 14 of the BSH for German OWFs thus requires a noisemitigation concept, which is that it must be ensured that the sound exposure level (SEL) does not exceed 160 dB re 1 Pa2 s and the peak level (Lpeak) does not exceed 190 dB re 1 Pa at a distance of 750 m from the construction site (BSH 2013a). Given the common European framework, further similar approaches ensuring uniformity across member states may be an upcoming issue. Merchant et al. (2018) propose a methodology for marine noise management to map and quantify risk at the population level. By defining riskbased noiseexposure indicators, the noise pollution exposure to populations can be quantified and managed (Merchant et al. 2018). Merchant et al. (2018) argue that noise could be integrated in assessments of cumulative effects as a stressor, as theproposed methodology is compatible with riskmapping approaches.;Another challenge is revealed by the ambitious approach to come up with any comparable and standardised spatially explicit surveys of marine mammals. The Surveys for Small Cetacean Abundance in the North Sea (SCANS) data are an important resource to track the distribution of populations over years and to estimate population dynamics. The last survey, SCANSIII (Hammond et al. 2017), was conducted in summer 2016 (Kaymaz 2018 see Scheidat amp Porter, Chapter 2). However, owing to the large time gaps, spatial resolution and some inconsistencies in the data set, the usability of the data for the purposes of EIA in individual sites remains rather limited. The undeniable dynamics in (protected) species distribution patterns in the marine realm, which may follow patchily distributed prey resources, which in turn may shift under climate change scenarios, also needs to be taken into account. The main question revolves around longterm effects, especially when developing less sensitive, and thus less suitable, OWF sites, for instance, once initiating OWF repowering. Owing to the unbounded and dynamic nature of the sea and human activities within it (Jay et al. 2016 Gill et al. 2018), uncertainties tend to be high, thus requiring flexible and adaptive approaches to both MSP and baseline survey and monitoring approaches. In other words  marine spatial planning can evolve to account for this dilemma by focussing not on static environmental baselines, but by placing emphasis instead on the resilience of the ecosystem and the ecosystem services they provide (Yates et al. 2018, p. 1). Given the great mosaic of baseline conditions and survey methods, over time only informal and technical guidance for MSP for offshore energy can lead to coherence and comparability, although the competence for the provision of guidelines lies mostly with the individual states and national authorities. A supranational example has been the OSPAR Guidance on Environmental Considerations for Offshore Wind Farm Development (OSPAR Commission 2008, amendment ongoing).