Ltd. with permission from Centrica and rsted. Aulay Mackenzie was then at the University of Essex and Sophy Allen at the Joint Nature Conservation Committee;To assess the potential impact of wind farms in the Firth of Forth and Tay, the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology developed an integrated population model to judge the potential impacts of four wind farms proposed at the same time upon six species of seabirds in the area (Freeman et al. 2014) one of the most important for breeding seabirds in Europe (Mitchell et al. 2004). These models integrated data describing the abundance, survival and productivity for all species from multiple sources. A key advantage of this approach was that it enabled both environmental stochasticity and observation error to be modelled simultaneously. By combining these data sources using a Bayesian framework, it was possible to make probabilistic predictions about future population changes under different scenarios such as impact versus no impact and for impacts of different magnitude.;In many ways, the strength of approaches such as these is also their weakness. They enable extremely detailed predictions about the likely consequences of impacts associated with OWFs. However, at the same time, they also require incredibly detailed data, which are unavailable for many species, particularly at a sitespecific level. Freeman et al. (2014), for example, could not include demographic data for all species at all sites in their analysis. However, as the sites were close to each other, they were thought likely to exhibit similar temporal patterns in demographic parameters (Cook et al. 2011). As seabirds often exhibit strong regional patterns in demography (Frederiksen et al. 2005a 2005b), where no data exist to support these models, it is unlikely to be appropriate to simply apply demographic data from colonies in other regions. However, it is to be hoped that with the rapid growth of seabird tracking studies that establish connectivity between colonies and particular wind farms (see Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4), and other advances in technology that allows the automated monitoring of seabirds, the data necessary for such powerful analytical approaches will become more widely available.