The main advantage of using aerial surveys is that a large area may be covered in a relatively short space of time. This means that it is possible to obtain a snapshot of seabird distribution over a wide area around the potential development area, which is important in characterisation surveys to provide context to the distribution patterns observed at the development site (see Baseline studies for projectlevel Environmental Impact Assessments, above). Similarly, during postconsent monitoring surveys, it may be difficult to detect changes in seabird distribution patterns around the wind farm unless a sufficiently large buffer area is surveyed (see Postconsent impact monitoring,above). For the most sensitive species, such as Redthroated Diver, this has been measured at 9 km from the wind farm (Petersen et al. 2014 Webb et al. 2017) and at 12 kmby Mendel et al. (2019).;The speed of aerial surveys also means that it is possible to take advantage of short weather windows that boatbased surveys may find difficult to exploit, particularly if the site is far from port (Box 3.1), which could result in missed surveys. The other key advantage of the visual aerial survey is the cost, as it may be the cheapest survey method. However, this should be offset against a number of disadvantages, of which safety concerns are foremost. Historically, lowlevel aerial survey has been beset by accidents, often resulting in fatalities (Hodgson et al. 2013). This is without the additional potential hazard of flying aircraft between wind turbines at the same altitude as rotors. Other concerns relate to the accuracy of this method, given the large volume of data that must be processed by observers in very little time, which leads to concerns about the accuracy of abundance estimates. The identification rates of birds to species level are also typically much lower than in boatbased surveys (e.g. in the UK, 0.3 of auks and 28 of gulls were identified to species level Department of Business, Energy and Regulatory Reform BERR, unpublished report 2007), partly because of the time constraints during surveys. The last potential concern relates to survey design when flying between turbines, as transect line positioning and orientation is necessarily constrained by turbine location within a wind farm, meaning that, if bird distribution within the wind farm is influenced by the turbine location then it is unlikely that the transect positioning will be independent of the distribution of the birds.;Digital aerial survey methods have evolved rapidly since commercial surveys began in offshore waters in 2009. The initial standards for these surveys in the UK were set out in Thaxter  Burton (2009) and updated in Thaxter et al. (2016), and by BSH (2013) for surveys in German waters with reference to Groom et al. (2013) and Buckland et al. (2012). These standards have been superseded by technological developments, so this section describes the most recent descriptions of the different methods used for digital aerial surveys.