Here, best practice to avoid and mitigate the impact of wind farms, during siting, construction, operation and decommissioning, upon infaunal, epifaunal and demersal and pelagic fish assemblages is described following a traditional mitigation hierarchy of avoid, reduce, compensate and restore (Cuperus et al. 1996 1999 Vaissire et al. 2015). Themitigation of noise impacts is described in more detail by Thomsen  Verfu (Chapter 7).;Considerations over the siting of wind farms and turbines to reduce any effects on seabed integrity and vulnerable species and habitats will help to avoid an overall impact on the ecosystem. The micrositing of individual turbines within a wind farm may minimise any impact on more valuable habitats in a patchy mosaic, such as seagrass (Zostera) meadows, mussel banks, or patches of coarse sand and gravel in an otherwise silty area. Micrositing should also be considered to avoid the need for dredging in a heterogeneous seabed with alternating soft and hard substrates and to avoid patches of contaminants on the seabed.;The macrositing of the entire wind farm will inevitably be subject to a large number of factors, of which avoiding potential habitat degradation is only one. Such macrositing considerations include avoiding unique vulnerable environments or areas that maintain sensitive and important ecological functions, such as particular fish spawning sites and wintering sites for seabirds. The avoidance of specific sites can also be considered in order to minimise the risk of their acting as stepping stones for invasive species. Siting considerations must, however, be based on welldocumented anticipated impact in a riskanalysis framework, otherwise there is a risk that various avoidance arguments are used as a pretext to protect unrelated interests. In addition, siting of a project in a disturbed area can be preferable to a development in a pristine environment (Inger et al. 2009). The reason for this is twofold. First, already degraded environments typically represent a benthic community that is more resilient to disturbance compared to pristine environments. Secondly, positive effects of wind farms, such as exclusion of fishing and increased diversity and productivity due to the reef effect, are likely to be more valuable in a degraded ecosystem. An offshore wind farm may actually help to improve the ecological status in a previously degraded environment (Bergstrm et al. 2014).