Of the models identified, Band (2012) is the most commonly used, particularly in the UK, but also recommended for use elsewhere (e.g. Ministry of Economic Affairs 2015). The approach used by the Band model was originally devised for onshore wind farms and promoted as guidance by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) but was later modified (Band et al. 2007) and then updated for OWFs (Band 2012) (Figure 5.2). A key change between the onshore and offshore models was the incorporation of density data in the offshore model. This reflects differences in data collection in the onshore and offshore environments. In the onshore environment, data on bird abundance are typically collected using vantagepoint surveys over a minimum of 72 hours, split between the breeding and nonbreeding seasons (SNH 2014). In contrast, such surveys are not possible in the offshore environment and data are collected from moving platforms. Initially, this was achieved through the use of monthly boat surveys following a standard methodology (Camphuysen et al. 2004). However, there has been a move towards collecting data using digital aerial surveys, which cancover the wind farm and buffer areas over the space of a few hours, rather than the several days often required for boat surveys (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3).;Figure 5.1 Range of parameters required to predict collision rates within a wind farm using a collision risk model. (Picture of Lesser Blackbacked Gull Larus fuscus and wind farm Tommy Holden and Moss Taylor, BTO);Boatbased survey data collected as part of windfarm pre construction surveys also enabled the development of continuous flight height distributions (Johnston et al. 2014), an approach subsequently applied to data collected using Global Positioning System (GPS) tags (RossSmith et al. 2016), digital aerial survey (Johnston  Cook 2016) and light detection and ranging (lidar) (Cook et al. 2018b). These have been incorporated as an addon to the offshore Band model (Band 2012), referred to as option 3 or the extended Band model. This has two key advantages. First, it allows the proportion of birds at collision risk height to be inferred in situations where data are limited andor unavailable. Secondly, it allows the model to account for the fact that birds towards the