The limits of the snapshot count area vary according to the ships speed and are defined by the distance or time in the forward axis and by the 300 m strip width in the perpendicular axis. If theforward distance is defined by time, then usually the surveyor will calculate the average distance travelled by the ship every minute, normally between 250 and 350 m ahead of the ship, and conduct a snapshot at 1 minute intervals within that defined zone. If the forward distance is defined by distance, usually 300 m, the surveyor will calculate how long it takes on average to travel that distance and conduct the snapshot counts in a 300300 m block at that calculated frequency. While all birds observed to occur in the 90 arc are recorded by the surveyor, only those that are in transect are used to calculate the density of birds.;The original methodology of Tasker et al. (1984) recommended that birds were classed as sitting if they made contact with the sea at any time when in view, regardless of how brief this contact was. However, many foraging behaviours, such as plunging, dipping, pattering, hydroplaning and skimming (Camphuysen  Garthe 2004), result in the bird making contact with the sea, but take place on the wing as a bird is moving relative to the ship. Recording birds that were essentially in flight as sitting would overestimate birds on the surface and underestimate birds in flight recorded by the snapshot method. The standards issued by the JNCC for ESAS trainers from 2005 onwards at least partly compensate for this problem by stating that birds must be assessed for flying or sitting behaviour at the time of first sighting. However, there may still be differences in the relative proportions of feeding to nonfeeding birds recorded by the snapshot method.;To allow for the detection efficiency of the surveyor, birds sitting on the water are assigned to distance bands (or bins), which are subdivisions of the 300 m strip transect according to their distance from the transect line when first sighted. These are defined as Band A (050 m), Band B (50100 m), Band C (100200 m), Band D (200300 m) and Band E (300 m and not in transect). Transverse distance to the distance bands is measured at sea using methods described by Heinemann (1981). Using these distance bands to account for detection efficiency using distance analysis (Buckland et al. 2004 2012 Thomas et al. 2009) (Box 3.3) essentially changes the method from a strip transect to a line transect in that the nearest distance band equates to the transect line. Linetransect theory requires that specific assumptions