Turbine design can strongly influence the probability of bird collisions (Anderson et al. 1999). The offshore industry generally uses the classic horizontalaxis threeblade monopole structures, although there are some twobladed turbines such as the Forthwind Offshore Wind Demonstration Project (Methil, Scotland), with other designs such as the verticalaxis concept in development. Thus, while there is scope for different designs in the future, current technology is largely limited to a single design. In turn, anyvariability in design parameters that could affect collision risk is largely limited to the dimensions of the turbine.;A large turbine, with longer rotor blades, will have a proportionally larger swept area than a smaller turbine, thereby increasing collision risk. However, fewer larger turbines are generally required to produce as much power as more of the smaller models and it is generally accepted that the use of fewer, larger turbines within a site of specific capacity will have a lower impact on seabirds (Cook et al. 2011 Johnston et al. 2014a). Conversely, the use of larger turbines with blades reaching higher altitudes may result in greater risk for migrating birds such as passerines and waders (Krijsveld et al. 2011) and perhaps migratory bats (see Box 8.1). Other turbine specifications such as blade width and rotational speed can also play a role in collision risk, but will generally be proportional to the size of the turbine according to engineering requirements.;As the flight height distribution of seabirds is biased to relatively low height above the sea surface (Furness et al. 2013a Johnston et al. 2014a), increasing the clearance of the rotorswept area above sea level, known as the air gap, is likely to reduce the risk of seabird collisions simply through a reduction of densities of birds at risk height (Anderson et al. 1999 Htker et al. 2006). However, increasing the air gap leads to a corresponding increase in the maximum height swept by turbine blades and the potential risk for highflying migratory species, especially if their normal flight heights that are far in excess of turbine height are reduced by poor weather (Hppop et al. 2019). Consequently, detailed data on site and speciesspecific variability in flight heights and behavioural response to turbines, which are then incorporated into collision risk modelling (option 3 in the Band 2012 model), are required to determine what changes in the air gap would be needed to deliver the required impact reductions.;Box 8.2 provides an example of how modifications to rotor length and the air gap may influence collision risk estimates, and considers how collision risk may differ when using small and large turbines within a site of fixed capacity. In reality, turbine size tends to be driven by the industry, with a push towards much larger structures that can deliver more power. For example, the average