Yet, Willsteed et al. (2018) argue that the assessment of multiple stressors on receptors from both cumulative and incombination effects of various projects is beset with challenges, particularly since knowledge gaps pertaining to effects of other marine uses exacerbate uncertainties. One method used to filter and prioritise the complex interactions of sources, pressures, pathways and receptors is the application of risk assessment criteria (Judd et al. 2015, p. 256). This means that all likely pressureeffect relations need to be identified, with their associated risk and the scale of impact, in order to define and implement suitable management actions.;Applying a drivers, pressures, state, impact and response (DPSIR) approach, Platteeuw et al. (2017) proposed a framework for cumulative impact assessment for OWF siting. This aims at criteria for the zonation, configuration and management of OWFs, and follows a sixstep approach (1) identification of pressures, (2) identification of potentially affected habitats and species, (3) description of other stressors and activities, (4) description of the nature and scale of cumulative effects, (5) evaluation of significance of effects, and (6) when necessary, adaptation and mitigation.;This approach has been further developed in the environmental working group of the Support Group on Maritime Spatial Planning (SG1), currently chaired by the Netherlands, which was established based on the political declaration on energy cooperation between the North Sea countries (European Commission 2016). The members conduct a Common Environmental Assessment Framework (CEAF), including a common knowledge basis, especially on cause effect relations of offshore wind, an agreement on common species and habitats affected by windfarm development, and on a common approach to how to assess crossborder cumulative effects. CEAF will be tested in SEANSE (Rijkswaterstaat Sea and Delta 2018) for different stages of wind energy development. In three case studies, the cumulative effects of existing and planned OWFs in the North Sea for the years 2023, 2030 and 2030 onwards will be assessed for the most sensitive marine species, namely Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena (Figure 9.7), divers Gavia spp. (Figure 9.2), and seabirds. The assessment of future largescale developments is based on observed effects from OWF monitoring, such as habitat use and