Beginning in the late 1990s, proposals to build offshore windfarms (OWFs) in European waters resulted in a need for dedicated surveys, often carried out by consultancies aboard vessels specifically chartered for the purpose, to meet the legislative requirements of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) to characterise the seabird communities associated with these developments. The surveys were generally undertaken at a much finer scale than normally considered for larger databases, such as ESAS. Nevertheless, there was still thought to be value in these surveys using ESAScompatible methods, while incorporating additional approaches such as collecting data on flight heights, and more explicit standards to assist the offshore developers assessment and their consultants. The Collaborative Offshore Wind Research Into the Environment (COWRIE) initiative, set up by the UK Crown Estate and supported by industry, commissioned Camphuysen et al. (2004) to provide a relatively detailed methodology for both boat (ship)based and aerial surveys. The authors recommended an extension of the boatbased methods contained in Webb  Durinck (1992) and the visual aerial survey methods of Kahlert et al. (2000) and that EIAs should be based on the results from a combination of both types of survey. ESAS was thus retained as a focus for promoting common standards for data collection and initiated training programmes such as that offered by the Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC 2017).;As wind farms started to be built in European offshore waters, mainly in the early 2000s onwards, attention turned to postconsent monitoring methods. In the UK, there were significant safety concerns and some methodological concerns about the prospect of aerial surveys being commissioned to fly between wind turbines at an altitude of 75 m above sea level (a.s.l.). This spawned a new approach to offshore seabird surveys for wind farms using digital video and stills cameras. These methods were accepted as a valid alternative to visual aerial survey methods in the UK (Thaxter  Burton 2009 Buckland et al. 2012) and Germany (BSH 2013). Initially, it was only possible to identify a relatively small proportion of birds to species level (Johnston et al. 2015), but new technology and techniques brought about a considerable improvement in image quality, resulting in identification rates of often more than 95 of birds to species level (e.g. Wei et al. 2016