Timing of construction events can be an important element of risk mitigation (Bergstrm et al. 2012 Hammar et al. 2012). It is well known that pile driving generates hazardous high intensity sound and that dredging under certain conditions can cause locally harmful levels of dissolved particles. Seasonalevents to avoid such impacts are typically related to ecological functions such as reproduction and migration. Regarding the benthic community, the importance of such timedependent considerations is more relevant for fish than for invertebrates (Bergstrm et al. 2012). In one case, the construction of a wind farm during the spawning period of a local population of Atlantic Herring Clupea harengus was thought to be responsible for a significant reduction in the strength of recruitment, with a significant knockon effect on the feeding conditions of a breeding seabird, the Little Tern Sternula albifrons, at what was then its most important colony in the UK (Perrow et al. 2011).;In Sweden, it is common practice to allow potentially harmful construction events only within a limited time window. This applies both to offshore wind power and to other activities consented under the Swedish Environmental Code. For large projects, narrow time windows for construction can increase construction time considerably, especially when combined with windows of favourable weather. The question of time restrictions during the construction phase is a balance between shorter, intense disturbance and prolonged but lower disturbance. Piling and dredging at a single foundation take hours and days, respectively. A large wind farm with hundreds of turbines may thus take years to construct, even without time restrictions. Longterm disturbance is typically considered more significant than shortterm disturbance because a more inclusive part of the population will be exposed and since no time will be given for recovery. Yet such temporally prolonged disturbance can have little ecological impact if important functions are not affected (Hammar et al. 2014). If the wind farm is large enough, the construction activity can be alternated between opposing sites within the area, relieving the benthic community on one side of the farm at a time.