One of the most important assumptions of linetransect sampling is that animal density in the area being surveyed is representative ofthe entire habitat in which the population of interest occurs. As it is rarely the case that populations are distributed evenly throughout any given area, this assumption needs to be met by utilising a robust survey design, which ensures that all portions of the study area have an equal probability of being surveyed. At least 1020 replicate transect lines should be placed in a systematic but randomised manner to provide a basis for an adequate variance of the encounter rate and a reasonable number of degrees of freedom for constructing confidence intervals. In addition, transects should not be placed parallel to any anticipated density gradient of the population, such as depth, as this could lead to high variance in encounter rates between the replicate transects. The layouts of transect lines in marine surveys are typically parallel or zigzag (sawtooth), the latter being the most efficient with regard to survey time, including fuel costs. The software program Distance (http distancesampling.org) (Thomas et al. 2010) can be used to create a survey design with an equal coverage probability.;It is also important that a sufficient number of sightings is obtained to calculate a detection function and to achieve the desired level of precision. For reliable estimation of the detection function, the absolute minimum sample size should be 6080 sightings of groups of animals. To assess how much effort is needed to obtain this number of sightings, existing information should be analysed or pilot studies should be conducted. Stratification of a study area into smaller subareas can be helpful, for example, to accommodate discrete areas of certain habitat types or areas of anticipated high or low density. It should be noted that once a survey has been conducted using a stratified design, the data cannot then be pooled and analyses must account for this stratification.;The logistical constraints of any survey, such as the location of airports and ports for refuelling, closed areas for shipping or air traffic, and the endurance of the vessel or aircraft to remote survey sites, must also be considered and accommodated within the survey design. An example of an offshore survey design in Atlantic waters, using a stratified survey design, for a combined visual and acoustic survey is provided in Figure 2.2.