Longterm studies have provided indepth data on population sizes (e.g. Reijnders et al. 1997 Teilmann et al. 2010) that provide baselines that incorporate natural variation. However, it is challenging to link changes in a local seal population in terms of abundance, habitat use, reproductive success or population growth directly to developments of wind farms, or indeed any other anthropogenic activity. Nonetheless, longterm estimates of regional population size and vital parameters, in combination with data from telemetry studies, have been used to model the expected impact of windfarm construction on Harbour Seals (Thompson et al. 2013). In areas where haulout locations are close to windfarm developments, direct effects on seal colonies have also been recorded. For example, the reduction in Harbour Seal numbers at Scroby Sands was most likely due to construction noise (Skeate et al. 2012) (Figure 2.12). During the piledriving activities in the Nysted OWF in the Baltic Sea, a reduction in seals resting on landwas also observed (Teilmann et al. 2006).;One of the most important, and most difficult, questions in the study of marine mammals and windfarm development is how to measure the impact of multiple sites. In addition, it is vital to consider other anthropogenic activities that may also affect marine mammal populations with ranges that overlap wind farms. Bycatch, compromised health status from contamination and stress, and other sources of underwater noise all contribute to the vulnerability of a population. It is not yet clear how additional impacts may exacerbate or contribute to populations that may already be under pressure. There are several largescale windfarm developments underway in Asia which are located within the habitat of the Indo Pacific Humpback Dolphin Sousa chinensis, a species already threatened by a myriad of other anthropogenic activities (Wilson et al. 2008 Jefferson  Smith 2016) (Box 2.2). As yet, the effects of the introduction of wind farms as a novel source of disturbance to these atrisk populations are unknown.;Several modelling approaches have been developed to try to gain a better understanding of the issue of cumulative impacts. Nehls et al. (2019) describe two models that have been applied in the North Sea, where windfarm development is extensive and ongoing. These are the interim Population Consequences of Disturbance (iPCoD) framework (King et al. 2015 Booth et al. 2017) and the DEPONS model (NabeNielsen et al. 2018). NabeNielsen  Harwood (2016) compare these modelling methodologies in detail.;Marine mammal monitoring methods applied in a wind farm vary depending on what is being assessed. During the construction phase, studies may focus on the immediate impact of noise on the avoidance behaviour of animals. For this, frequent or continuous monitoring before, during and after piling events is needed. This is especially important if any mitigation measures are taken and the