Trained operatives undertake postsurvey review of digital images under laboratory conditions. All digital aerial survey operators review their imagery to search for objects that are likely to be birds or other marine megavertebrates, then pass these objects for identification to the lowest order possible, preferably species, and apply a confidence to that identification. In both phases, there is a qualityassurance (QA) process, usually consisting of a doubleblind review or identification of either 10 or 20 of the material, and requiring at least 90 agreement between the first and second reviews. Unlike visualbased survey methods, the detection of objects is uniform across the transect or plot, avoiding the need for calculating a detection function to correct forperception bias. Perception bias is, in effect, enumerated by the QA process in the first search phase.;All digital aerial survey providers are able to use transectbased and quadrat (or plot) methods for sampling bird densities at sea, although most tend to use transectbased sampling methods. Both sampling approaches require that individual samples (transects or plots) are equally spaced. For plots, this spacing is required in two dimensions to avoid errors that may arise from pseudoreplication (Buckland et al. 2001). When using designbased analysis methods (Burt et al. 2010), plotbased sampling works well for very abundant species, but less well when there is a low encounter rate of fewer than 60 individuals (Buckland et al. 2001). Transectbased sampling can cause lower precision in abundance estimates at small sites when there is a small number (fewer than 13) of transects or samples (Buckland et al. 2001). Plotbased and transectbased sampling methods are insensitive to the number of samples when using modelbased analytical methods, simply because subsections of transects (or segments) are treated as samples.;Precision in abundance estimates is affected by the amount of survey coverage and this can be varied in any survey method by reducing the distance between sample locations, as long as there is no responsive movement by birds to the survey platform. In most surveys, a minimum target coverage of 10 of the offshore study site is required in the UK and in Germany (BSH 2013). This should be seen as the minimum coverage.;All digital video surveys use what is known as the HiDef method, first developed by HiDef Aerial Surveying Ltd in the UK, and later also operated by BioConsult SH in Germany. The surveys can be flown in different twinengined aircraft types and do not require the highwinged varieties of visual aerial surveys (Figure 3.10). Typical aircraft are the Diamond DA42, Vulcanair P68 and Piper PA23 (Aztec), flown at a height of approximately 550 m (1,800 feet) a.s.l. Flying above 500 m ensures that there is no risk of flushing those species known to be easily disturbed by aircraft noise (Thaxter et al. 2016 Wei et al. 2016). Position data for the aircraft are captured