Despite these promising results, the development of pure drilling solutions was not taken further owing to cost considerations. Because of its high cost relative to other installation methods, wind farm developers use drivedrilldrive technology only occasionally, for example, when piles need to be installed in bedrock or substrates with hard bottom layers. Examples include the North Hoyle (2003), Barrow (2005), Teesside (201213) and Gwynt y Mr (201314) OWFs. At North Hoyle, piles were drilled in underlying bedrock after they were first driven through the upper sand and sediment layers. A strong fundamental component at 125 Hz and harmonics up to 1 kHz dominated the emitted frequency spectrum (Nedwell et al. 2003). Unfortunately, the authors could not establish the source level and transmission loss. At Barrow, a pile topdrillingsystem provided by Bauer was used to install three monopiles with a diameter of 4.75 m. The drill cut through various layers of dense sand, silt, clay, mudstonesiltstone and siltstonesandstone. Thereafter, piling was undertaken until target depth. Rates of progress varied between 0.35 and 1.0 mh (Beyer  Brunner 2006). Developers gained further experience with drivedrilldrive operations at Gwynt y Mr, where the worlds largest reverse circulation drill rig provided by LDD was used for several 6.5 m diameter monopiles. Reported progress rates were 0.6 mh in mudstone and up to 2.2 mh in softer ground (Fugro Seacore 2014). Although a significant cost reduction in drilling technology has been achieved, the method is still not cost competitive to impact piledriving and, apart from being used at sites with challenging soil conditions, does not play a major role in offshore pile installation.;Suction buckets, also known as suction cans or caissons, are a proven lownoise installation technology for anchoring offshore structures in the seabed. The installation process starts with the placement of the suction bucket foundation on to the seabed. Owing to the deadweight of the structure, the bucket penetrates the substrate to a certain depth. Then, preinstalled pumps are switched on to evacuate water and loosen sediment from the interior of the bucket, thereby creating a negative pressure on the inside. With ongoing evacuation, the hydrostatic pressure difference and the structures deadweight cause the bucket to penetrate farther into the seabed. Levelling is accomplished by alternating pumping operations between several suction chambers or individual suction cans. The only noise associated with the installation process comes from the suction pumps and the installation vessels.;The installation of suction buckets is possible in a variety of sediments such as sands, clay, silt, other watersaturated soils and layered compositions of these materials. Large boulders, or other hard inclusions such as cemented layers or coral outcrops can be problematic, however, and areas with large sand waves or high seabed mobility may exclude the applicability of suction buckets. Finally, as suction bucket installation is a function of water depth