In 2003, the Crown Estate launched the tender for a second round, which focused on three strategic development areas that had been identified in a prior SEA process Thames, Greater Wash and Liverpool Bay to Solway (DTI 2002). The three strategic regions forthe subsequent competitive bidding rounds identified in Round 2 drew on information such as water depth, transmission grid options, existing and planned uses, and environmental information (DTI 2002). However, more specific EIAs especially for individual Round 2 sites revealed sensitive siting conditions, especially for seabirds. The making of the SEA involved an interactive and participative approach, in which development scenarios in each of the strategic regions were tested. Applying a basic geographic information system (GIS)based risk analysis, spatially explicit information on the abundance of marine mammals or bird migration corridors remained rather limited, however. Nevertheless, protected marine sites especially in the EEZ were largely missing in the early 2000s, since, for example, the Marine and Coastal Access Act was published only later in 2009, which formally introduced Marine Conservation Zones (Parliament of the United Kingdom 2009). As a result, in several cases the OWF sites needed to be modified because of the subsequent assessment on a project level. For instance, the London Array OWF in the Thames estuary needed to be altered because of internationally relevant populations of wintering Red throated Diver (Loon) Gavia stellata (Figure 9.2). While initially planning for a phased development for the London Array OWF (development of phase 1 with a subsequent phase 2 development if no significant impacts were found during phase 1 monitoring), the second phase needed to be cancelled owing to uncertainty (Perrow 2019). Similarly, the Cirrus Shell Flat OWF in the North West region required modifications because of important wintering grounds for Common Scoter Melanitta nigra populations (Kaiser et al. 2002 2006) (Figure 9.3). Furthermore, construction noise, possible cumulative effects and the grid connections could not be covered well enough at the time.