Additional sensors on tags can provide deeper understanding of behaviour and potential use of locations in space and time (Harris et al. 2012 T. Cook et al. 2012 Brown et al. 2013 Waggitt  Scott 2014 ShamounBaranes et al. 2017) (see Box 4.1). However, even in the absence of such sensors and the information they provide, movement models,such as hidden Markov methods based on speed and turning angles of tracks (e.g. McClintock  Michelot 2018), first passage time analyses (Pinaud  Weimerskirch 2007) and Bayesian statespace models (e.g. Patterson et al. 2008), can be used to categorise different behaviours. Environmental factors that may affect distributions and behaviours such as bathymetry, sea surface temperature, and productivity and prey distribution, can then be modelled with telemetry and other marine bird data sets to reveal the reasons underpinning space use (e.g. Skov et al. 2008 Wakefield et al. 2009 Louzao et al. 2009), which may, in turn, inform marine spatial planning (Loring et al. 2014).;Theoretical models can also be used to predict likely responses of marine birds to offshore structures. For instance, Chimienti et al. (2014) used models to understand the implications of hypothetical disturbance scenarios from underwater renewable devices (such as wave and tidal devices) for the foraging efficiency of diving marine birds. Tracking data can also be incorporated within individualbased models (IBMs) to predict potential consequences of environmental change on specific populations. A key example of this is the study by WarwickEvans et al. (2017), who used telemetry data of Northern Gannet Morus bassanus at Alderney in the Channel Islands, UK, to parameterise a spatially explicit IBM to investigate potential impacts of wind farms on body mass and vital rates for the protected population, under scenarios of avoidance behaviour and collision. Here, telemetry data were separated into flight resting and foraging, with information also included for adult and chick components of daily activity budgets, prey and energetics (WarwickEvans et al. 2017). In this case, wind farms were predicted to have little impact on the Alderney Northern Gannet population. Nevertheless, this approach shows how telemetry data can be used in an applied context at the individual bird level to assess populationlevel consequences.