 By focusing on the longterm and major strategic pathways and actions, MSP can provide visions and directions for development and conservation (Ehler et al. 2007 Ehler 2018). One should pursue optimacy, that is the extent to which an MSP and SEA process follows best practice according to international standards (Bond et al. 2018 Rehhausen et al. 2018), rather than the basic requirements that all too often are the primary focus.  The precautionary principle matters offshore, since impacts are often not predictable and beset with substantial uncertainties (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). In managing uncertainty, risk assessments that adopt the ALARP principle (as low as reasonably possible), focusing on realistic risks and not simply worst case scenarios (Gill et al. 2018), could be applied in MSP.  By covering various types of impacts, including cumulative, in combination, synergistic, shortterm and longterm, as well as adverse and beneficial, planning can pursue an integrative approach, identifying potential conflicts but also synergies between maritime uses (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015).  Addressing the accurate planning level is of importance to cope successfully with the issues and problems at hand (HELCOM VASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). One size does not necessarily fit all MSP tiers. Whereas the overarching MSP plan needs to integrate and balance all sectors and uses, sectoral marine plans have specific targets and often focus on wind energy, leaving less room for the consideration of alternative developments (Dahmen 2017).  Planning human use is to be based on the latest state of knowledge of ecosystems, thus safeguarding the components of the marine ecosystem in the best possible way (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). In adopting common approaches and methods to evidencebased planning and by sharing data widely, knowledge on the marine environment and MSP can grow.  However, the crucial question is Will the new data be used if there is more development of OWFs and other marine uses? This question refers to the requirement to establish and apply the best available science mandate in planning and impact assessment (Wolters et al. 2016 Weber et al. 2019). With an increasing bodyof research and generated knowledge, best practice approaches will have to be updated regularly (Gill et al. 2018).  Reasonable alternatives need to avoid or reduce environmental impacts (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). A major responsibility to pursue a sound discussion of alternatives early on in the process lies with the making of SEA of MSP plans. However, Rehhausen et al. (2018) demonstrated how much still needs to be done in terms of that paramount requirement. It remains to be seen, for example, whether the amendment (until 2021) of previous plans, for example in the German case, will prove to be more strategic than its forerunners.  Transboundary dimensions in MSP can be more important than in terrestrial prototypes of spatial planning, such as in the case of the North and Baltic Seas, where various EEZs cut through a contiguous seascape. MSP should also reach across sectors and governmental responsibilities, and among different levels of government, as horizontal and vertical tiering, respectively. Moreover, data can be harmonised and the joint workforce and knowledge of different stakeholders can be utilised to develop solutions to any issues (Baltic SCOPE Project 2017a Ehler 2018).  To facilitate evidencebased planning and decision making, an ever increasing variety of decision support tools are available to be applied in the construction of MSP plans (Pnarba et al. 2017 Stelzenmller et al. 2010 2011 2013). In adopting a reflective and iterative angle, more attention is being paid to monitoring, evaluation and reporting approaches for greater evidencebased management of marine resources (Addison et al. 2018).  Addison et al. (2018, pp. 949950) pinpointed key solutions for the latter (i) integrating models into marine management systems to help understand, interpret, and manage the environmental and socioeconomic dimensions of uncertain and complex marine systems (ii) utilising big data sources and new technologies to collect, process, store, and analyze data and (iii) applying approaches to evaluate, account for, and report on the multiple sources and types of uncertainty.  Carefully designed participatory processes not only increase transparency of decision making, but can allocate local knowledge and expertise and allow planners to consider various interests early on in the planning process. Continuous information and participation throughout the planning process may generate