The timely rollout of offshore wind developments in the Netherlands follows the Offshore Wind Energy Roadmap (Routekaart Wind op zee 2030, EZK 2018), which ensures a gradual extension of the installed offshore wind capacity. For the designated windfarm developments, the regulations are summarised in individual Wind Farm Site Decisions (Kavelbesluits), which contain a number of provisions to prevent physical harm andor disturbance to marine mammals and fish, such as noise thresholdsfor the SEL that must not be exceeded in the construction phase. The applicable noise threshold is dependent on the final number of wind turbines and the season in which piledriving operations will be executed (MEZ 2016 RVO 2017). As for Germany, the Harbour Porpoise serves as an indicator species for the establishment of noisemitigation practices.;Notwithstanding any differences in approach between countries, it is clear that considerable progress has been made in developing technologies for the mitigation of effects of OWF noise on marine life. This is especially true for developments in source mitigation such as BLUE Piling, and channel mitigation in the form of casings, bubble curtains and resonators. The application of the precise method depends on the sitespecific conditions and is strongly governed by the applicable regulatory framework as well as the project economics. It is important to note that in order not to exceed the noise thresholds required in German waters in particular, there has been an increasing trend towards the use of several noisemitigation systems in combination with each other (Table 7.2). This includes the use of farfield systems in combination with nearfield systems, such as the combined deployment of a BBC and an HSD system (see Bubble curtains and Resonators, above) at Wikinger OWF (Figure 7.4).;Finally, the authors suggest that the selection of the appropriate noisemitigation method or combination of methods should follow a riskbased approach (Boyd et al. 2008 WODA 2013). A risk assessment framework results in a more systematic approach to sound impact studies. It involves a stepwise procedure, including (1) risk identification, (2) exposure assessment, (3) doseresponse assessment, and (4) the overall characterisation of the risk, which leads to (5) risk management and the selection of appropriate mitigation measures (Figure 7.13). Applying this approach means that mitigation measures would be applied only when risks are high, such that sound levels are likely to lead to significant effects on marine life. This can be investigated using acoustic modelling (Farcas et al. 2016 Nehls et al. 2019) and a thorough analysis of the abundance and distribution of marine life in the project area through specific surveys and research (see Dahlgren et al., Chapter 1 Scheidat  Porter, Chapter 2).