At the time of writing in 2018, bubble curtains had been the most frequently used NRT for the installation of offshore wind turbine foundations. Bubble curtains are formed by pumping compressed air through perforated hoses with nozzles. For the predominant design, the big bubble curtain (BBC), the hoses are deployed on the seabed in a radius of 5080 m around the piling site. Ascending air bubbles act as a barrier and extenuate the sound propagation by reflection, scattering and resonance effects. To boost the efficiency,one can deploy two (a double big bubble curtain or DBBC) or more bubble curtain layers instead of one (Figure 7.4). In a few instances, small bubble curtains (SBCs) have been directly attached to the pile or the foundation itself, but these designs have shown to be vulnerable to currents and are therefore less effective. Therefore, so far, only the BBC design has played a role. The first serial test of a BBC layout was executed at the Trianel Windpark Borkum wind farm (Diederichs et al. 2014). Several BBC setups, mainly differing in the size of the nozzles and the quantity of supplied air, were successfully tested during the installation of 31 (out of 40) tripod foundations that each were anchored with three pin piles in the seabed. The best BBC configuration regarding both effectiveness and practicality delivered an average noise reduction of 11 dB (SEL) and 14 dB (Lp,0pk), resulting in a drastically reduced noise impact area (Diederichs et al. 2014 Dhne et al. 2017). Since then, similar BBC setups have proven their effectiveness at numerous other OWF projects in German waters. Experience gained from these installations has shown that the attainable noise reduction may vary owing to differing soil properties, local currents and water depth. Over the past few years, larger pile diameters and higher piling energies have required multilayer BBCs or combined systems (near field NRT plus BBC or DBBC) to stay within the statutory noise limits (Figure 7.4).