In principle, other foundation types, such as gravity (base) foundations and floating OWFs (see overviews in Carbon Trust 2015a Jameson et al. 2019), may be installed with far less noise than those using piles, especially monopiles. Gravity foundations are large boxlike structures that are typically made of concrete and steel. Their stability is achieved by the deadweight of the structure, supplemented by additional ballast. The available models differ in shape and production details. Developers have installed gravity based foundations in several projects, especially in the Danish part of the Baltic Sea and the Belgian part of the North Sea, in waterdepths no more than 25 m.;Floating wind farms exist as several conceptual designs, divided into sparbuoys, such as Hywind, semisubmersible platforms, such as WindFloat, and tensionleg platforms, such as the BLUE H concept. All of these include a floating turbine moored to the seabed using tautleg or catenary mooring systems. The anchoring and mooring solution depends on the seabed conditions and the holding capacity required. Catenary moorings often involve drag embedded anchors or gravity anchors. Tautleg moorings are typically anchored with smalldiameter driven piles, suction piles or gravity anchors. The size of the anchor is variable, with larger and heavier anchors able to generate a greater holding capacity, and the associated noise of installation varies with the method used. The full potential of floating wind farms will be realised in locations that are challenging or not suitable for monopiles or jackets for instance, sites with water depths beyond 50 m or very hard bottom substrates.;The first commercial operational floating wind farm, Equinors Hywind Scotland project, was commissioned in 2017. Five 6.0 MW turbines on sparboys each 91 m long and weighing 2,300 t were installed at Buchan Deep, approximately 25 km off the east coast of Scotland, in water depths of 95120 m. Each floating substructure, constructed by Navantia in Spain (Figure 7.12), is anchored to the seabed with three suction anchors, being 16 m tall and 5 m in diameter (Equinor 2017). The wind turbines were preassembled on land, before being lifted on their sparbuoy substructures and towed to the site. The noise emissions associated with the installation of floating foundations are much lower than for piled foundations, with the noise from the installation of the suction anchors being comparable to that emitted during the installation of suction bucket foundations (Koschinski  Ldemann 2013).