Seabird surveys have a long history and have been adapted for use in relation to wind farms. At first, boatbased and aerial observer surveys were used, but digital aerial survey techniques have been developed that offer enhancements in terms of speed of survey and, in some cases, cost, accuracy and safety. With specific standalone examples presented in boxes, this chapter describes how these traditional and new methods may be used to provide abundance estimates for characterisation and impact assessment, and to monitor windfarm effects and impacts as accurately and precisely as possible. Notwithstanding that it is important to tailor the methods to the specific circumstances and the questions being asked, this chapter concludes with a series of guiding principles on how to conduct surveys and how data should be analysed, as follows (1) the size of the survey area must extend beyond the distance at which seabirds may respond to the wind farm, (2) aerial surveys are best suited to large study areas and species sensitive to vessels, (3) boatbased surveys are best suited to provide detailed information on seabird behaviour and flight height, (4) the proportion of transect area should sample at least 10 of the study area, (5) surveys should be carried out once or twice per month as an absolute minimum and generally be maintained throughout the annual cycle, (6) more than 2 years of surveys will be required to describe interannual variation, (7) where more than one site is present, projects should combine monitoring efforts over a large scale to understand cumulative effects, (8) power analysis should beused to estimate the ability of a given survey design to detect change, and (9) the use of sophisticated modelling techniques is likely to be needed to describe changes in spatiotemporal abundance patterns of seabirds.;The census of seabirds at sea has been challenging since the first documented attempt in the North Atlantic in the 1920s (Jespersen 1924). Many seabird species are widely dispersed over a large sea area while others may be aggregated, sometimes close to the coast or in very shallow water (e.g. Skov et al. 1995 Stone et al. 1995). Seabirds are generally highly mobile and respond to changes in the location of their prey with consequent impacts on their spatial and temporal distribution patterns at sea. Shortterm highdensity foraging aggregations of one or more species often form at patches of abundant prey (Camphuysen  Webb 1999 Fauchald et al. 2000). Researchers charged with providing an unbiased estimate of the abundance of seabirds in a specific area to assess their sensitivity to specific threats, such as oil pollution, fishing or offshore renewable energy developments, thus face a somewhat daunting task.;A number of projects began during the 1970s to attempt to map the offshore distributions of seabirds, such as those by Gould (1974) in the eastern Pacific Ocean, Briggs et al. (1978) in the Southern California Bight, Brown et al. (1975) in the western Atlantic Ocean and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) (1977) in the eastern Atlantic. In the UK, the original drive to begin seabird surveys at sea came from the need for informed advice for the offshore oil and gas industry. The survey methods used for these projects advanced the standardisation of seabird abundance from the rudimentary number of birds per hour to number of birds per square kilometre as density. The advent of the Seabirds at Sea programme of the Nature Conservancy Council in 1979 in the North Sea resulted in a review of the potential survey methods for census of seabirds from ships and recommended a standardised approach to improve comparability between different and overlapping