of research and generated knowledge, best practice approaches will have to be updated regularly (Gill et al. 2018).  Reasonable alternatives need to avoid or reduce environmental impacts (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015). A major responsibility to pursue a sound discussion of alternatives early on in the process lies with the making of SEA of MSP plans. However, Rehhausen et al. (2018) demonstrated how much still needs to be done in terms of that paramount requirement. It remains to be seen, for example, whether the amendment (until 2021) of previous plans, for example in the German case, will prove to be more strategic than its forerunners.  Transboundary dimensions in MSP can be more important than in terrestrial prototypes of spatial planning, such as in the case of the North and Baltic Seas, where various EEZs cut through a contiguous seascape. MSP should also reach across sectors and governmental responsibilities, and among different levels of government, as horizontal and vertical tiering, respectively. Moreover, data can be harmonised and the joint workforce and knowledge of different stakeholders can be utilised to develop solutions to any issues (Baltic SCOPE Project 2017a Ehler 2018).  To facilitate evidencebased planning and decision making, an ever increasing variety of decision support tools are available to be applied in the construction of MSP plans (Pnarba et al. 2017 Stelzenmller et al. 2010 2011 2013). In adopting a reflective and iterative angle, more attention is being paid to monitoring, evaluation and reporting approaches for greater evidencebased management of marine resources (Addison et al. 2018).  Addison et al. (2018, pp. 949950) pinpointed key solutions for the latter (i) integrating models into marine management systems to help understand, interpret, and manage the environmental and socioeconomic dimensions of uncertain and complex marine systems (ii) utilising big data sources and new technologies to collect, process, store, and analyze data and (iii) applying approaches to evaluate, account for, and report on the multiple sources and types of uncertainty.  Carefully designed participatory processes not only increase transparency of decision making, but can allocate local knowledge and expertise and allow planners to consider various interests early on in the planning process. Continuous information and participation throughout the planning process may generateownership and acceptance of the spatial planning process (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015).  Planning processes should be accompanied by a resonating advisory board, as was undertaken in the Washington MSP process (State Ocean Caucus 2017), and for the amendment of the German EEZ MSP (see Germanys Exclusive Economic Zone Marine Spatial Plan 2009 Strategic Environmental Assessment reconsidered, above). By involving expertise and knowhow from different disciplines and stakeholders, an advisory board can enable quality assurance, iterative feedback loops and critical reflections of the entire planning process.  Mitigation measures to prevent, reduce and, as far as possible, offset adverse effects on the environment should be considered early in the planning process, implemented, monitored and evaluated carefully (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015).  Knowledge about ocean seascapes, ecosystems and species has increased over the past few decades. Yet planning faces uncertainties, as do effects and impacts, particularly at the ecosystem and population levels. In applying adaptive and iterative processes, through monitoring and followup, uncertainties can be managed and feedback loops established. Organisations and planning entities entrusted with MSP plans should be capable of learning while doing, and reflective of the process and its performance.  MSP is required to balance ecological, economic, social and cultural goals and objectives to facilitate sustainable development (Ehler 2018). As required by various international treaties, management and planning approaches should be transnational and centred on the ecosystem in question (UN 1982 European Parliament amp European Council 2008 2014).  SEA has been found to promote and foster learning among stakeholders involved in the planning and SEA process (e.g. Jha Thakur et al. 2009 Jones amp MorrisonSaunders 2017 Snchez amp Mitchell 2017). With manifold MSP processes being amended or under review, the SEAs may provide the chances for learning from previous activities and adopting improvements in future MSP plans.