The considerable and rapid advances in telemetry systems used to track marine birds, especially since the 1990s, has been the subject of a number of reviews (RopertCoudert  Wilson 2005 Hooker et al. 2007 Burger  Shaffer 2008 Hart  Hyrenbach 2009 Bridge et al. 2011 Brown et al. 2013). Development continues apace, particularly as a result of miniaturisation of tags allowing smaller, more efficient devices to be used on a wider range ofspecies, and a wider range of sensors within them to study different aspects of behaviour (Box 4.1, Figure 4.1). Box 4.1 provides a chronological overview of the advancement of different technologies and retrieval systems and the evolution of additional telemetry sensors that have been used to date on marine birds. These developments go handinhand with improvements in the ways that tags are attached to marine birds, and the critical aspects of bird welfare considerations that are further outlined in Box 4.2. Telemetry methods can be grouped by the different tracking technologies used and the dataretrieval system to acquire the data, such as satellite relay, fixed or mobile receivers or archival storage (see Box 4.1). When referring to individual types of tags, satellite tags, satellite tracking and satellite telemetry are sometimes used as a shorthand to refer to devices that collect information using the Doppler effect (Maxwell 1971) or just through general transmission of information back to the user via the Argos satellite tracking system (Box 4.1). Therefore, the term platform terminal transmitter (PTT) is used when referring to tags using the Doppler effect and transmission of data via satellite, noting that PTTs can be combined with other systems such as GPS, which are then referred to as GPS PTT, for example.;Attachment methods for tags on marine birds depend on the goals of the research, and thus its duration, and the species ecology and anatomy. For short periods during the breeding season, tags may be attached using a temporary fixture to feathers, for example by tesa tape or glue (Figure 4.1), which are lost when the bird moults (e.g. Hamer et al. 2007). For longer term attachments beyond the duration of the breeding season, other methods are needed. Some tags may require harnessing (e.g. Klaassen et al. 2012 Thaxter et al. 2015) and for larger species, some devices can be fitted using neck collars (e.g. Griffin et al. 2016). Surgical implantation of tags such as satellite platform terminal transmitter (PTTs) may be undertaken to study movement into the longer term (White et