To allow for the detection efficiency of the surveyor, birds sitting on the water are assigned to distance bands (or bins), which are subdivisions of the 300 m strip transect according to their distance from the transect line when first sighted. These are defined as Band A (050 m), Band B (50100 m), Band C (100200 m), Band D (200300 m) and Band E (300 m and not in transect). Transverse distance to the distance bands is measured at sea using methods described by Heinemann (1981). Using these distance bands to account for detection efficiency using distance analysis (Buckland et al. 2004 2012 Thomas et al. 2009) (Box 3.3) essentially changes the method from a strip transect to a line transect in that the nearest distance band equates to the transect line. Linetransect theory requires that specific assumptionsregarding the detection, lack of movement and accurate measurement of distance of animals are met (Buckland et al. 2001) (see Box 3.3). These assumptions can be met in part for sitting birds by good training and execution of the ESAS method. It is also possible to test the assumption of whether all sitting seabirds are being detected on the transect line in ESAS surveys by the use of doubleplatform methods (Borchers et al. 2002). Although this was recommended by Camphuysen et al. (2004), it is doubtful whether this has ever been performed for boatbased surveys of birds in relation to OWFs. Nonetheless, to maximise the detections, particularly in the closest distance bands to the transect line, which are fundamental to analysis of detection efficiency and assumed to be 100, the maximum wind speed recommended for boatbased surveys is Beaufort force 4 (30 kph) (Camphuysen et al. 2004 BSH 2013). For the most part, this standard appears to have been followed by practitioners surveying around OWFs, although there are examples of surveys in higher wind speeds.;Boatbased transect and snapshot methods can be used to derive simple density estimates by simply dividing the counts of birds seen in each by the survey effort applied, and combining the values. An average density and measure of variance can be estimated from densities calculated for individual transects (or smaller spatial units). However, decreases in detectability of animals with distance can result in negatively biased population estimates (Skov et al. 1995 Ronconi  Burger 2009). This is especially likely for relatively small species that are mainly recorded on the water, such as auks. Detection may also be influenced by many other factors, such as sea state, glare and surveyor ability. Distance analysis, usually undertaken in specially designed Distance software (Thomas et al. 2009) or the Distance package (Miller 2017) in