A good example where telemetry has tackled this issue is the study by Frederiksen et al. (2012) that used geolocators to examine the nonbreeding season movements of 236 Blacklegged Kittiwakes from 19 different colonies. The study identified the nonbreeding areas, in particular large marine ecosystems (LMEs) thereby allowing the size and composition of nonbreeding populations in each area to be estimated through proportional area use (Frederiksen et al. 2012). It was estimated that 40 of the North Sea LME Blacklegged Kittiwake population present in December 2009 originated from the Barents Sea LME, whereas 18 of the breeding North Sea population remained in the North Sea over the winter (Frederiksen et al. 2012). Such information allows an assessment of the connectivity between birds wintering in particular areas and different source breeding populations (or colonies), andthus the assignment of potential impacts to nonbreeding birds from particular populations (or colonies) (see Figure 4.2). This example also highlights the potential value of geolocation, even though it is not as precise as GPS (Box 4.1). Future tracking studies will no doubt be important in helping to identify use of specific areas and thus to refine definitions of BDMPS in relation to windfarm development.;Displacement of birds from areas that they would naturally occupy is perceived as a key effect of wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen 2019). Displacement can take several forms, including as a barrier to bird movements over an area, often assessed separately within EIAs. Tracking data sets that inform the potential connectivity of birds from protected sites with proposed developments are often used for assessing the potential impacts of barrier effects (see also Informing collision risk modelling, below), such as in the case of Whooper Swans Cygnus cygnus (Griffin et al. 2011) (Box 4.5) in relation to the Moray Firth OWF zone (Natural Power 2012). Given the marked and highly informative response of birds in the few studies undertaken, further tracking studies of marine birds and waterbirds during both the breeding and nonbreeding season would be highly welcomed to add to the radar studies that have measured the increase in flight distance as a result of barrier effects (Masden et al. 2009).;The energetic consequences of the increase in flight distance as a result of barrier effects have generally been considered to be minimal (Masden et al. 2009 2010), although they may come into play at the cumulative level (Masden et al. 2009), with impacts on individual fitness perhaps being expressed on the population as a whole. By contrast, McDonald et al. (2012) developed an approach incorporating both barrier and displacement effects from proposed wind farms in the Forth of Tay (southeast Scotland) on the time energy budgets of Common Guillemots breeding on the Isle of May. This method combined information on foraging behaviour and time spent in flight from telemetry data with information on prey distribution. Assuming a random prey distribution, displacement