This planningrelated chapter provides a review of approximately a decades work on spatial planning approaches for marine ecosystems and seascapes, and relevant Strategic Environmental Assessments (SEAs). Attention is focused first on the initial motives and early pioneers of this young planning realm, recognising offshore wind farms (OWFs) as a crucial driver of marine spatial planning (MSP). Early approaches to MSP faced major challenges a limited and rather dynamic marine database for planning purposes, with lessons of various marine uses still to be learned, especially considering actual impacts pertaining to OWFs. This chapter offers insights into pioneering MSP, primarily in the UK and Germany. The year 2021 marks the deadline for European member states to set up Marine Spatial Plans in accordance with the 2014 Maritime Spatial Planning Directive. In conjunction with the 2008 European Union Marine Strategy Framework Directive, this is to adopt an ambitious ecosystembased management approach, both raising and addressing the question as to what degree this will modify future MSP and how SEA is conducted in relation to OWFs. In addition, challenges remain in preventing, assessing and mitigating intra and interplan cumulative effects on the marine environment and tailoring impact assessment approaches accordingly, be they fornational territorial waters or the Exclusive Economic Zone. At the same time, international cooperation is crucial, such as in the North and Baltic Seas, where multiple countries are involved in both the development and conservation approaches for shared marine ecosystems and their ecosystem services. In consequence, good practice and guidance for the making of Marine Spatial Plans and SEAs pertaining to OWFs continue to be refined and developed, yet much still remains to be implemented. The chapter concludes with a series of recommendations regarding future planning requirements and open questions concerning the continuously evolving field of MSP.;Around the beginning of the new millennium, further activities and technological approaches increasingly fuelled traditional and novel uses of our seascapes and their management (Ehler et al. 2007 Jay 2010a). The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) had incontestably recognised the increasing economic importance of our globes seas (UN 1982). In addition, UNCLOS shifted the focus beyond national territorial waters extending at most 12 nautical miles from shore, by setting a framework for the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) up to 200 nautical miles from a nations shores and the relevant rights and duties of the nation and its neighbours. Although Ehler et al. (2007) argued that marine spatial planning (MSP) is analogous to spatial or landuse planning in terrestrial environments, Jay (2010a) states that MSP was built at sea and may be better handled as a marine adoption of terrestrial planning. Relevant environmental planning and impact assessment for oceans subsequently became an important issue (Jay 2010a Portman 2016). In 2001, the European Union (EU) launched its Directive on Strategic Environmental Assessment, which targeted plans and programmes such as marine planning activities, including the development of infrastructure projects such as offshore wind farms (OWFs) (European Parliament amp European Council 2001).