Visual surveys generally require clear vision and can be carried out either by experienced observers with binoculars, spotting scopes andor rangefinders to quantify the distances involved (Skov et al. 2018) from stable, windprotected vantage points (platforms or anchored ships) or by means of highresolution aerial digital imagery (Buckland et al. 2012 Williams et al. 2015 Kemper et al. 2016). Digital aerial surveys involve postflight visual analysis of birds in the resulting imagery (Kemper et al. 2016) and provide spatial information on the distribution of diurnal birds relative to offshore wind turbines (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3). But as with observerbased survey techniques, digital aerial surveys primarily depend on high visibility conditions.;With observerbased surveys using spotting scopes (60 magnification), identification of many flying birds passing at a distance of up to 6 km is possible, but size dependent (Dierschke et al. 2005). Under favourable conditions, a few larger species, for example Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo, may be identified even up to a distance of 15 km compared to georeferenced buoys (Dierschke 1991 Dierschke et al. 2005). The majority of songbirds, however, can only be detected at most to a few hundred metres even under good conditions (Kramer 1931 Dierschke et al. 2005). If carried out systematically, observerbased surveys will yield (semi)quantitative data on encountered birds including their identity and behaviour (e.g. foraging, resting, actively migrating, avoidance, attraction and collision), migratory phenology and altitudinal distribution. As with most surveillance methods, visual monitoring of birds is restricted by fog, precipitation, high seas and strong winds, thus missing migratory activity at times of potentially enhanced collision risk. In general, visionbased survey techniques demand a lot of human resources (field observers or personnel for screening imagery), incur high logistical costs and are limited by the fact they cannot be conducted on a continuous basis. Consequently, the risk of missing sporadic incidents such as mass collision events (Hppop et al. 2019) increases with the spacing of observation periods.