The Visual Automatic Recording System camera system or VARS was designed to quantify the number of birds and bats passing the rotorswept area of a wind turbine (Schulz et al. 2009 Collier et al. 2012) to assess collision risk. VARS can be positioned on a turbine nacelle, monitoring a radial sector behind the rotor parallel to the plane of the rotorswept area. The opening angle can be adapted to the size of the target species and to the intended detection range, such as the length of rotor blades. Because of its installation on thenacelle, the position of the cameras field of view remains constant relative to the surveyed plane of the rotorswept zone. The fulltime operating camera uses a chargecoupled device (CCD) sensor that is sensitive to infrared radiation which, in combination with infrared spotlights, makes observations during daylight and in darkness possible (Schulz et al. 2014). Realtime recognition and recording of birds and bats passing through the camera field is automated by motion analysis software. Animals that move at a predefined minimum speed within the cameras field of view cause specific changes in pixels, which triggers the storage of video streams for as long as movements take place (Collier et al. 2012). With VARS, the identification of smallbodied birds is possible to the group level, such as warblers, thrushes, terns and swifts, while larger birds are often identified to species level. The distance at which birds are detected ranges from 60 m to several hundred metres for passerines and larger birds, respectively (Collier et al. 2012). In a 3year survey at Alpha Ventus OWF in the North Sea, bird traffic measurements with VARS within the rotorswept area was compared to that obtained from fixedbeam radar measurements taken in the immediate surroundings. This allowed microavoidance rates to be empirically determined for the first time at an OWF at night, when the majority of recorded flights occurred (Schulz et al. 2014 Coppack et al. 2015). A bird collision rate for the turbine was calculated using the VARSmeasured traffic rate through the rotor swept area. Two further comparable VARS units have been running at the FINO 2 research platform in the southwestern Baltic Sea since 2007 and have continuously recorded the nocturnal light attraction of birds at the platform. A highdefinition version with colour videos has also been developed, leading to improved species identification and extended detection ranges in daylight conditions.;This system was developed to automatically record bird collisions at wind turbines and inform users about individual incidents (Ahmad et al. 2013). The system consists of microphones and two video cameras equipped with CCDs sensitive to infrared radiation (Wiggelinkhuizen et al. 2006). Cameras are mounted together with