Radio detection and ranging (radar) uses electromagnetic radio waves ranging from a few millimetres up to 2 m for locating, tracking and identifying objects (Bruderer 1997). Radar technologyhas been used in bird research since the 1940s, but began to be more widely employed in ornithological research from the 1960s (Eastwood 1967 Bruderer 1997 ShamounBaranes et al. 2014 Hppop et al. 2018). Subsequent methodological improvement was slow, however, and emerging evidence on the complexity of radar measurements prevented its wider application until the 1990s (Bruderer et al. 1999 ShamounBaranes et al. 2014). Since that period, the algorithms for radar image processing have improved and new software tools for image analysis have become available (Stepanian et al. 2014).;Radio waves are classified into bands by their length. Bird studies often use either an X band, with a range of wavelengths from 2.5 to 3.75 cm (812 GHz), or an S band with 815 cm (24 GHz) wavelengths. The higher frequency X band typically provides a higher resolution and can detect smaller targets, while the S band has a more extended range and is less affected by rain and fog. A radar device emits either continuous or pulsed electromagnetic radiation waves and receives echoed radiation, of which only a very small quantity of energy is reflected from targets, such as birds, bats and insects, back to the radar system. These radio waves travel at light speed and the time lapse between emission and echo perception is a measure of the distance between the radar device and its target (Eastwood 1967 Bruderer 1997 Kunz et al. 2007 Drake  Reynolds 2012). Reflectivity is dependent on the relative difference in dielectric properties between two media. In the case of bat and bird detection, the difference in electric conductivity between air, a dielectric medium, and water, a conductive medium, in organic tissue causes reflections of radio waves from target bodies. For birds, the maximum detection range of radar is from a few kilometres to about 240 km, depending on antenna characteristics, power of emitted radiation, radar wavelength and target radar crosssection (Desholm et al. 2006 Drake  Reynolds 2012). Detection improves when target size is relatively large compared to the operating wavelength. Using shorter wavelengths (X band 3 cm), however, does not necessarily improve bird and bat detection because atmospheric attenuation increases with decreasing wavelength, and smaller objects, such as rain or insects, begin to blur or clutter radar images as insect contamination. In