In their framesetting role, some MSP plans are guiding future OWF development through zoning approaches. This is the case in the MSP plan for the Belgian part of the North Sea (Belgian Federal Public Service Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment 2014b). The plan delineates a zone for awarding domain concessions for the construction and exploitation of installations for generatingelectricity from water, tides or wind. The plan was subject to SEA and three alternatives were tested (1) the draft MSP plan (Alternative 1), (2) a zero alternative, and (3) an additional Alternative 2, a variant with enhanced nature conservation among other use zones (Belgian Federal Public Service Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment 2014a).;The MSP plan for the German EEZ in the North Sea (BSH 2009b) and in the Baltic Sea (BSH 2009a) designated priority areas for wind energy. In these areas, the production of wind energy was given priority over other uses such as fisheries and exploitation of resources, while the alternatives assessed in the SEAs (BSH 2009c 2009d) referred mostly to macrositing (i.e. corridors and OWF areas) instead of technical (e.g. tidal energy vs OWF) alternatives (cf. Rehhausen et al. 2018). The likely evolution of the environment without implementation of the plan, in other words a zero alternative analogous to that described above in relation to Belgium, was described in depth but was not considered to be a reasonable alternative, given Germanys energy and climate targets.;The Massachusetts Ocean Management Plan established three types of management areas (1) prohibited areas (i.e. areas where certain uses, activities and facilities are prohibited, such as for electric power generation, transmission and distribution), (2) renewable energy areas, including both commercial and community scale, and (3) multiuse areas (EEA amp CZM 2015). Among the potential sources of renewable energy, special attention was paid to wind energy. The plan proposed two wind energy areas, based on environmental screening that applied exclusionary criteria including high concentrations of marine avifauna and water dependent marine uses such as ferry routes, and conducted a cumulative impact assessment.;In Ireland, a sectoral approach to MSP was pursued, addressing offshore renewable energy within an Offshore Renewable Energy Development Plan (OREDP) that assessed areas for technical (i.e. wind, wave and tidal energy, and a combination thereof) and macrositing (i.e. different spatial distributions) alternatives (DCNER 2014). The OREDP was subject to SEA (Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland et al. 2010), with the scope of the SEA determined early in the OREDP process, as both processes are