We are grateful to a number of people who contributed to this chapter, in particular Felix Wei, Alex Schubert and Jorg Welcker of BioConsult SH, and to Andrew Harwood, Richard Berridge and Martin Perrow of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd for their additional text. Many people have contributed to the evolution of different methods for census surveys of birds at sea and are referenced as much as possible in the text. Much of the intellectualinput on survey methods at sea has evolved from long discussions with Martin Perrow, many staff at the Joint Nature Conservation Committee, staff at the Centre for Ecological and Environmental Modelling (CREEM) at the University of St Andrews, but especially Professor Steve Buckland, Kees Camphuysen of the Netherlands Institute for Sea Research and Ib Krag Petersen of the University of rhus. Digital video aerial survey methods have evolved rapidly over time, but initially benefited greatly from work by David Baillie of Wildcat Films, Matt Mellor of Createc Ltd and Rhys Hexter of RH Business Services Ltd, and latterly with Felix Wei and many others at BioConsult SH. The ornithological studies at Dogger Bank (Box 3.1) were supported by Alastair Mackay and Gareth Lewis formerly of Forewind and permission to include details from this study were kindly provided by Scottish and Southern Energy, Equinor and Innogy. Many people at Gardline Limited, WWT Consulting and HiDef Aerial Surveying Ltd, too many to mention by name, contributed their considerable time and effort to this study. The studies at Lincs (Box 3.2) were conceived and supported by Jen Snowball, Kit Hawkins and Ben Coulston, all of Centrica Renewable Energy Limited and permission to reproduce these results was granted by rsted special thanks to Madeleine Hodge for her input to the text. MRSea modelling was carried out by Monique Mackenzie and others at DMP Statistical Solutions Ltd.;Albrecht J. (2007) Guidelines for SEA in Marine Spatial Planning for the German Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)  with Special Consideration of Tiering Procedure for SEA and EIA. In Schmidt M., Glasson J., Emmelin L., Helbron H. (eds) Standards and Thresholds for Impact Assessment. Environmental Protection in the European Union, vol 3. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg;Barbraud, C.  Thiebot, J.B. (2009) On the importance of estimating detection probabilities from atsea surveys of flying seabirds. Journal of Avian Biology 40 584590.;Barlow, J., Oliver, C.W., Jackson, T.D.  Taylor, B.L. (1988) Harbor porpoise, Phocoena phocoena, abundance estimation for California,