Most birds that collide with wind turbines fly into the rotor blades. The extent to which it is possible to increase the perception of wind turbines as dangerous for birds, enabling evasive manoeuvres to come into play, has not been investigated in situ. What seems clear is that birds do not see the rotating blades at close range because of motion smear (Hodos 2003). Motion smear occurs when the rotor blades rotate quickly (up to 250 kmh at the blade tip), making them partially transparent and blurred. The reason the birds are unable to avoid such situations may be that they are unable to perceive rotor blades in motion, lose manoeuvrability because of turbulence close to a wind turbine or fail to respond adequately in time through avoidance (May 2015). Mitigation measures to reduce collisions should therefore primarily focus on increasing the visibility of the rotor blades to birds. However, some species, such as Smla Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus variegatus, are known to collide with theturbine towers (see Box 11.1 in Pedersen 2017). For these species, mitigation measures should focus on increased visibility of the towers. The rationale behind increasing the visibility of the tower is to increase the horizon, forcing low flying birds to circumvent such elevations. The main reason, however, why effective mitigation measures to reduce bird collisions have not yet been developed and implemented lies in the challenges associated with evaluating the effectiveness of such measures (May et al. 2015).;In the INTACT project (20132017), contrast painting of rotor blades and turbine towers was tested experimentally at the onshore Smla wind farm (Figure 8.8). Painting one of the three rotor blades black, according to Hodos (2003), resulted in a significant reduction in the number of bird collisions, by 70, at four treated turbines relative to four control turbines before painting. Whitetailed Eagle Haliaeetus albicilla, Common Snipe Gallinago gallinago, Meadow Pipit Anthus pratensis and Hooded Crow Corvus cornix were recorded most during collision fatality searches. Painting of the lower 10 m of the tower base at ten turbines resulted in a 30 reduction in Willow Ptarmigan collisions relative to ten control turbines before treatment.