Aerial surveys using distance sampling methods have been conducted from fixedwing aircraft (e.g. Hammond et al. 2002), helicopters (Southwell 2005), microlights (Rowat et al. 2009 Jean et al. 2010) and blimps (Hain et al. 1999 Frstenau Oliveira et al. 2017). Aerial surveys can also be conducted as manned or unmanned digital surveys (see Digital aerial surveys). A key consideration when planning aerial surveys is that fuel capacity islimited and, depending on the type of aircraft, surveys may be able to operate for only 78 hours. Working offshore in regions where weather conditions can change rapidly, this limitation poses safety concerns, again highlighting the importance of good survey design and planning.;For small cetaceans, good weather conditions are vitally important for successful data collection. For example, for the small (less than 2 m in length) and generally inconspicuous Harbour Porpoise, surveys are conducted only when sea state is Beaufort 3 or better. In some regions of the world, such oceanic conditions are rare. As aerial surveys are much faster than boatbased surveys, there is often greater flexibility in survey platform deployment, and aerial survey teams can wait for good weather windows and conduct surveys quickly before the weather changes. Aircraft configuration is also important as the area directly under the aerial platform, that is the transect line, should be visible to the observers. While some analytical methods deal with surveys that do not include viewing the transect line (Buckland et al. 2001), it is better to use highwinged planes that are equipped with bubble windows that allow an unrestricted view (Figure 2.4). For visual surveys, a common configuration is to situate an observer on each side of the aircraft, thus enabling observation of the transectline area under the plane. The observers can record information on environmental conditions, including sea state and glare, in addition to information on sightings or animals, such as species and group size. An inclinometer is used to measure the vertical angle to a sighting, which can then be converted to estimate the perpendicular distance from the sighting to the transect line. As aerial surveys are generally conducted at a speed of around 100 knots, large areas can be covered in a short time. A disadvantage of highspeed surveys is that there is limited time to detect marine mammals and observers must stay focused, so a dedicated data logger is also required to complete the survey team. At high speed, species identification can be challenging, but in some cases survey protocol can be adapted to allow for breaks in effort so that sightings can be photographed and verified (Figure 2.5) and observers allowed some moments of rest.