Digital aerial surveys have several advantages, the main one being that sightings can be replayed and reviewed multiple times, which increases observation objectivity and minimises some biases. Furthermore, for both manned and unmanned vehicles, only a flying crew is required as observer teams do not need to be on board, making flying the survey cheaper and logistically less challenging, with some health and safety risks also reduced. High definition digital camera systems attached to aircraft can collect either moving or still imagery, and such systems have been used successfully to census birds (Buckland et al. 2012) and to estimate the relative abundance of Harbour Porpoise (Williamson et al. 2016). For windfarm impact assessments, the German government requires that digital aerial surveys be conducted for birds and cetaceans (BSH 2013). As with aerial surveys with human observers, this method works best in good weather conditions. Analysis of the resultant data still requires considerable humaninput, which is a highcost factor, but automated detection systems are on the horizon, which may streamline future analyses.;Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) carrying camera systems have also been used to study several species of marine mammals (e.g. Koski et al. 2009 Linchant et al. 2015 Moreland et al. 2015 Pomeroy et al. 2015). The use of UAVs is limited for the purposes of windfarm surveys as the flight range is short and good weather conditions are essential for example, most UAVs cannot fly if it is too windy (Chabot  Bird 2015 Fiori et al. 2017). As both duration and endurance increase and costs reduce, the use of UAVs as a tool for marine mammal surveys is likely to increase, along with future applications for windfarm surveys.;A number of challenges, such as the identification of cetacean species, the impact of environmental conditions on the sighting conditions and the calculation of correction factors for animals that are not visible, still need to be addressed for aerial digital imaging surveys. As this technique becomes more widespread however, it is likely that both data collection and analysis methods will be refined (Mackenzie et al. 2013). Importantly, as windfarm coverage of areas such as the North Sea grows, aerial digital surveys will become increasingly useful, as these surveys can be flown at altitudes higher than the current 180 m requirement for visual aerial surveys, which is too low for flights over wind farms. Thus, the ability to undertake digital surveys at higher flight height enables coverage of both wind farms and their surrounds.;Using images obtained from satellites to study marine mammals has been much discussed and reliable methodologies are beginning to emerge (Abileah 2002 Platonov et al. 2013 Cubaynes et al. 2019). One clear advantage is that large areas of extremely remote habitat can be surveyed, although as yet these areas are not likely to be developed as wind farms. As with aerial surveys, the observation platform, that is, the satellite, does not influence marine mammal behaviour or distribution. Highresolution images have been used successfully to count large whales, such as Southern Right Whale Eubalaena australis, Gray Whale Eschrichtius robustus, Fin Whale