In a variation of the HSD concept, Wochner et al. (2016) developed arrays (trays) of underwater airfilled Helmholtz resonators, the AdBm system, which surround the noise source and are tuned to optimally attenuate noise in a frequency band of interest. Offshore tests with a fullscale prototype executed in the autumn of 2018 at a wind farm in the Belgian part of the North Sea, showed a 78 dB reduction in sound pressure level compared to an unmitigated scenario (Elzinga et al. 2019). The best efficiency is reached around the design frequency (100 Hz) of the damping elements, whilst the reduction in higher frequencies is lower to some degree. Dhne et al. (2017) have stated that this frequency response is not of benefit for highfrequency cetaceans such as Harbour Porpoise. The system would, however, work very well for fish and other cetaceans such as baleen whales that are more sensitive at lower frequencies (Southall et al. 2007 Gill et al. 2012), and a combined deployment with a bubble curtain can achieve a good overall performance in both the low and the highfrequencyband (Elzinga et al. 2019). In general, it is possible to design the individual resonators to achieve reduction at a whole range of frequencies (M. Wochner, personal communication 2017).;An ADD is an underwater sound emitter that is intended to deter marine mammals from dangerous objects or areas such as fishing nets or marine construction activities. Similarly, an AHD is a sound emitter intended to keep marine mammals, usually pinnipeds, away from particular areas such as fish farms, leading to alternative names such as seal scarers and seal scrammers. The distinction between ADDs and AHDs in the context of offshore wind is arbitrary, as both devices are being used to exclude marine mammals from areas of exposure to highintensity noise such as impact piledriving. Yet, it has to be pointed out that AHDs have much higher estimated source sound pressure level (SPL) at 185 dB re 1 Pa at 1 m than ADDs, with 185 dB re 1 Pa at 1 m (Gordon et al. 2007 OSPAR 2009).;The evidence base regarding the efficacy of seal scarers in deterring seals, for which they were designed, is still inconclusive (Gtz  Janik 2013). However, seal scarers have been shown to cause aversive behaviour in Harbour Porpoises to a distance of several kilometres (Brandt et al. 2012 2013 Dhne et al. 2013 2017). Despite this, the deterrence of porpoises by seal scarers is not 100 effective as a small number of individuals may remain in the area afterwards. From a conservation perspective, it should be noted that the use of seal scarers could become an issue as a result of the potential to lead to largescale habitat exclusion, at least in