Figure 1.10 Example of the network of bottommoored receivers that was placed around a turbine in Belwind wind farm in 2017. The eight green dots indicate the position of the receivers around the turbine F05 (X), covering an area with a radius of 150 m. A Vemco receiver is illustrated in the bottom right of the picture (not to scale).;Even though telemetry samples only a small portion of the entire population, information density per individual is very high. Analysis of the results is still ongoing, although a detailed finescale picture of the movement behaviour and physiology of Atlantic Cod in response to OWF construction activities, as well as other environmental factors, is anticipated.;The development of the offshore wind industry is an example of how anthropogenic activities are changing the marine environment and ecology. When habitats are modified, this affects species distribution and connectivity, including population dynamics and sourcesink relationships. Methods for monitoring ecosystem functioning, such as infauna respiration levels, include the deployment of respiration chambers where gas levels are measured in situ (Srensen et al. 1979). Other methods include change in faunal functional groups identified from community structure analyses or accumulation in the sediment of nutrients such as organic carbon or phosphorus.;The use of acoustic sonars as a remote sensing technique for the detection of ecosystem functioning, in terms of smallscale seabed features, has been shown to be very effective. Beds of seagrass and Horse Mussel Modiolus modiolus, and the reefbuilding Ross Worm Sabellaria spinulosa have been monitored and evaluated by sonar technology in planned and operating wind farms (Pearce et al. 2014). Quantitative and qualitative habitat mapping, which included species distributions and densities over large areas, has been taken a step farther following the incorporation of biological data gathered for groundtruthing to provide a higher level of confidence. In the Thanet OWF in the UK, acoustic data sampling identified biogenic reef habitats formed by Sabellaria spinulosa