An important consideration in any study is to determine how much data is sufficient to answer your research question (e.g. Taylor et al. 2007). Inadequate data collection is due, in part, to the intrinsic difficulties of any assessment of marine mammal populations, as described later in this chapter. It can be very challenging to survey an offshore area for widely ranging species which usually occur at low densities and that are only visible for short periods in good weather. Nevertheless, it is important to consider at an early stage the amount of data that will be needed and to design the research project accordingly.;One way to gain a better understanding of this problem is to conduct a power analysis (e.g. Gerrodette 1987). This analysis will provide information on what kind of results a study design will be likely to yield. Some a priori information will be needed to do this, such as expected sighting rates per effort, and pilot studies may be needed to obtain this. For the power analysis, one also needs to consider what kind of change the study aims to detect. Obviously, with all other factors being the same, larger changes in occurrence or behaviour will be easier to detect than smaller changes.;There is a direct relationship between increasing the power of a design and the costs. In general, to improve data quality and quantity an increase in effort is needed, for example through the coverage of a larger number of transect lines. As budgets are limited, this leads to a tradeoff between costs and statistical precision. A specific challenge for windfarm studies is that the study area is often small, and that the monitoring period, in particular during construction work, is relatively short.;A number of approaches have been proposed and applied with regard to detecting changes in occurrence or behaviour of marine mammals in wind farms, such as the beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) design or the use of Bayesian modelling (e.g. Carstensen et al. 2006 Sveegaard et al. 2013 Thompson et al. 2013). The decision on which monitoring method and analyses to use, and how much effort should be spent, needs to be considered for each case.