It is believed that sediment structure and predation pressures may change in softsediment habitats surrounding turbine foundations, in turn affecting the infauna community structure (Miller et al. 2013). Coastal marine soft bottoms are ecologically important for the aquatic ecosystem owing to high biological activity and production, and are used by economically important fish and shellfish species as nurseries (Pihl  Wennhage 2002). The addition of hard structures can be stabilising and hence protect a variety of benthic organisms against wave action, ice scouring and predation, or against human activities, such as trawling. Monitoring the magnitude and range of these effects, including changes in benthic infaunal community structure and function, can be of high scientific interest. A variety of grabs, for example the Van Veen grab or the larger SmithMcIntyre grab, or Day grab samplers which are commonly used in the UK as standard samplers, are typically used for macrofauna sampling, whereas cores are used for meiofauna, sediment structure and content analysis (Figure 1.4, Figure 1.5). These allow quantitative and qualitative studies of the benthic infauna and are suitable for BACI monitoring. A sampling strategy of an area typically involves a randomised or stratified sampling programme with four or five replicated grabs at each sample station. However, both the sampling density and the number of replicates required vary with the variation in the parameter studied. The confidence interval is low (statistical power is high) when a larger sample is taken and when the variation is low. As a role of thumb, a sample of 30 when the average of a parameter is 100 will give a confidence interval of 90 and 99 when the standard error is 100 and 10, respectively. Corresponding numbers for a sample size of 10 are 70 and 97. When sampling for temporal changes, care must be taken to repeat the sampling at the same time of the year. The grab samples are carefully sieved directly on retrieval, using a 1 mm screen, and the samples fixed for taxonomic work back in the laboratory. Meiofauna, sediment structure and chemical content analysis may be best sampled using a multicorer that will take up to 12 replicate cores in one sampling effort. These cores can, in turn, be sectioned for specific investigations such as the distribution of meiofauna at different sediment depths. Meiofauna are typically