(SPAs) integrity. This modification was embedded in the requirements of the projects Development Consent Order (DCO).; What do you see as the single biggest improvement that could be made to these models in order to support the consenting process? The greatest improvement to these models would come from the use of empirical data, particularly for flight heights, flight speed, nocturnal activity and avoidance rate. The technical difficulties and costs of collecting such data are well known and, as a result, very few projects have consent conditions requiring such use. However, where this has been done, for example in radar studies of Pinkfooted Goose Anser brachyryhnchus avoidance rate at Lynn and Inner Dowsing offshore wind farms, results have shown that previous avoidance rates were conservative and have provided the evidence to raise them. In 2018, the Offshore Renewables Joint Industry Project on bird collision avoidance reported (Skov et al. 2018) and, following further review commissioned by the SNCBs, allowed recalculation of avoidance rates for some species (a variety of large Larus gulls, Blacklegged Kittiwake and Northern Gannet) based on empirical evidence (Bowgen  Cook 2018). In addition, stochastic collision risk models have been developed (Masden 2015 McGregor et al. 2018), allowing variation around each parameter to be incorporated.;As part of the planning process, predicted collision rates must be considered in the context of the population(s) concerned, and assessed at a cumulative scale as well as at the level of the individual project. A variety of approaches exist to enable this. In recent years, assessments for OWFs in Europe have used potential biological removal (PBR) (e.g. Skov et al. 2012 Ministry of Economic Affairs 2015 Busch  Garthe 2016), whereby predicted collision rates are assessed against estimates of the number of additional mortalities a population can sustain. Some projects have also used population viability analysis (PVA), whereby predicted collision rates are incorporated into population models and projected over the life of a development. These analyses can