Impact Assessment (EIA) Directive (1985, updated 2011) and the Habitats Directive (1992). In the USA, the Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) plays an important role. In any of these jurisdictions, the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) or Environmental Statement (ES) generally involves a description of the local environment and often includes an inventory of species and other components that could be affected, in what are generally termed baseline conditions. The EIS also comprises a description of the maximum extent of the windfarm development and a detailed assessment of the possible effects of the development on the local environment. This often includes proposed mitigation to reduce those effects. Regulators then examine the EIS and decide whether the residual effects are acceptable if so, a permit (consent) can then be issued. Any granted permit may come with the obligation to carry out mitigation measures (see early reviews in relation to noise by Thomsen et al. 2006 Nehls et al. 2007). Thus, new sound mitigation technologies have been developed, partly in response to the establishment of noise thresholds and other regulatory measures in some parts of the EU (BSH 2013a).;This chapter describes the current state of knowledge in technologies and approaches to mitigate underwater noise that arises during the installation of OWFs. It builds on earlier reviews (Caltrans 2009 OSPAR 2016 Verfu 2014) and covers a wide range of peerreviewed papers and grey literature in the form of reports and other publicly available information from press releases and websites. Experiences are mainly drawn from the North Sea region in northwestern Europe, as this has been the focal area for offshore wind to date. However, theoretical considerations that may be relevant for sites being developed in other markets across the globe, such as in the USA, Taiwan or Japan, are also provided. To structure the review, mitigation measures were divided into three main categories (1) Source mitigation, whereby sound is reduced directly at source, (2) Channel mitigation, which refers to any method that reduces the sound emitted into the water column that