Thermal imaging devices detect the longwave (215 m) infrared radiation emitted by any bodies, which are, in the case of birds and bats, usually significantly warmer than their environment. As the detectability of infrared radiation increases with the temperature difference between a body and its background, birds and bats are generally readily perceived by thermal imaging devices offshore, at least in temperate and higher latitudes where water and air temperatures are lower, yearround, than the body temperature of homoeothermic animals. This thermal disparity is further enhanced at night, improving the accuracy of thermal imaging for quantification of nocturnal animal movements at sea. As a result, thermal imaging is particularly appealing for monitoring the interactions between offshore wind turbines and bats or migratory birds because bats are nocturnal and avian migration passage rates tend to be higher at night than during daylight hours (e.g. Hppop et al. 2006 Welcker et al. 2017). Nevertheless, thermal imaging devices have a lower spatial resolution than visible lightsensitive video cameras of comparable focal length and, hence, operate at shorter ranges. They are also unable to detect bats and smaller birdsthat are still detectable by visiblelight sensitive video cameras.;Thermal imaging has been regularly used to record bird and bat collisions with wind turbines since the late 1980s (Winkelmann 1992 Horn et al. 2008). Sensors have also continually developed, for example to allow 360 detection (Figure 6.3) or the replacement of actively cooled detectors with lower cost, passively cooled units (Desholm et al. 2006). The sensors are also being tailored to monitor offshore avian and bat collisions in conjunction with other remotesensing techniques, providing more comprehensive and robust detection systems (see Collision detection systems, below). Similar to infrared video cameras, thermal imaging can track flights, although with limited spatial resolution (but see Gauthreaux  Livingston 2006), and quantify flock size and migration intensity (Desholm et al. 2006 Collier et al. 2012). Thermal imaging has four major advantages (1) fulltime day and night recordings are achieved, (2) taxonomic identification of animals is often possible to the speciesgroup or species level, although highly dependent on the experience of the analyst as identification is more often based on behavioural rather than morphological traits, (3) direct detection of collisions is possible with some systems even under conditions of poor visibility (Collier et al. 2012), although cloud cover generally lowers the ability to detect birds and bats with thermal imaging (Horton et al. 2015), and (4) thermal imaging enables detection of passerines, which as a group experience high numbers of collisions offshore (e.g. Aumller et al. 2011 Hppop et al. 2016 see also Figure 6.1). Bats and smaller songbirds are detected at a lower range compared to thrushes. There are, however, also several disadvantages associated with thermal imaging. Compared to simultaneous weather radar measurements, Horton et al. (2015)reported that thermal imaging detections decreased with the presence of cloud cover and flight height, but increased with mean ground flight speed of animals.