Previous research on the effects of offshore wind farms (OWFs) has shown that once the turbines are constructed, the scour bed, that is the hard substrate surrounding the base of each turbine, has a strong positive influence on the presence of Atlantic Cod Gadus morhua in the area (Reubens et al. 2013). Atlantic Cod inhabit the offshore artificial structures during summer and autumn and use the scour beds as feeding grounds (Reubens et al. 2014a). The presence of offshore turbines therefore has an effect on the number and distribution of Atlantic Cod in the North Sea. However, how the constructionphase of offshore turbines affects marine fish has been little studied. Here, we use acoustic telemetry to investigate the effects of windfarm construction in the North Sea on Atlantic Cod.;By 2020, European Union member states are expected to obtain 43 GW of electric energy from offshore wind (Seanergy 2020 2012), which is 2.7 times the total installed capacity in 2018 of 15.78 GW (WindEurope 2018), implying that construction activities in the North Sea will be intensive and ongoing for some years to come. Most turbines are constructed using pile driving, hammering the foundation piles into the seabed. This method elicits a lowfrequency sound, with peaks between 20 and 100 Hz, at a high decibel level (250 dB re 1 Pa at source). Fish that possess organs to detect sound pressure are able to hear sounds in the range of 10500 Hz (Slabbekoorn et al. 2010) and are therefore potentially affected by construction noise. In extreme cases, high exposure levels of sound can lead to the death of the fish through rupture of the swimbladder andor other organs or internal bleeding. However, the most widespread effects of noise will most likely be behavioural and physiological changes.;Acoustic telemetry is a wellknown method to study fish movement, behaviour and physiology over a longer period (Hussey et al. 2015). This technique uses tags, carried by the freeswimming fish (Figure 1.8), that transmit an acoustic signal that can be detected by strategically placed receiver stations. Each tag emits a unique ID code, resulting in presenceabsence information on an individual level. Advances in electronic tagging are ongoing and apart from presenceabsence tags, electronic tags including temperature, pressure and acceleration sensors are now becoming widely available, offering a whole new range of monitoring possibilities. Using accelerometer sensors, it has become possible to study the activity of an individual. Furthermore, using indoor experiments, links can be made between acceleration and oxygen consumption, which is a proxy for metabolic activity (Metcalfe et al. 2016), allowing us to estimate the metabolic costs of the activity levels that fish are exhibiting in the wild.