Duddon Estuary Special Protection Area, showing use of existing wind farms during the 2014 breeding season. Two scales are shown (a) localised twodimensional movements in relation to operational wind turbines and (b) finescale threedimensional movements within operational wind farms in relation to locations of a subset of turbines. Locations are shown as likely flight (red travel speed 4 kmh) or likely resting, bathing or swimming (yellow travel speed 4 kmh) orange lines link consecutive GPS points, The pink star indicates the location of the breeding colony. (Reproduced with permission from Thaxter et al. 2018a images  Inter Research 2018 Windfarm turbine locations  Crown Estate map backgrounds  GoogleEarth);The level of finescale information gained for Lesser Black backed Gulls above is similar to that obtained by Harwood et al. (2017), who employed visual tracking (see also Perrow et al. 2011b) from a rigidhulled inflatable boat to follow breeding Sandwich Terns Thalasseus sandvicensis before, during and after construction of Sheringham Shoal wind farm on the east coast of the UK. During construction, terns demonstrated a macroavoidance response, with the proportion of birds crossing the site reducing by 30. Within the site, birds also avoided areas of construction activity. Both responses were unexpected considering there was no risk of collision from what were nonoperational standing structures and that Sandwich Tern is typically classed as being insensitive to human activity (Garthe  Hppop 2004). Results of the continuation of tracking during the operational phase are awaited, with the anticipation that the rate of collision would be very low in accordance with the avoidance behaviour observed. Visual tracking, whereby birds are followed as they are encountered, which readily provides hundreds if not thousands of independent samples, overcomes the frequent criticisms of telemetry studies that the number of individuals with tracks on which analysis is based may be small, and data are repeat measures of the same individuals. An opportunity to undertake both visual tracking and telemetry simultaneously on a target species would be particularly valuable.;Finally, it should be noted that the behaviour of species may vary between locations, while time and weather patterns may also influence the flight behaviour of marine birds (e.g. Kahlert et al. 2012). Intrinsic variation may also exist in patterns of habitat use and environmental interactions between individual birds, age