Marine mammal monitoring methods applied in a wind farm vary depending on what is being assessed. During the construction phase, studies may focus on the immediate impact of noise on the avoidance behaviour of animals. For this, frequent or continuous monitoring before, during and after piling events is needed. This is especially important if any mitigation measures are taken and theeffectiveness of these needs to be tested.;Once construction has ended, the focus should be on how the habitat use may have changed from a baseline, ideally including research on some of those parameters that could have an impact on the distribution of marine mammals (e.g. their prey). It is important to have a baseline, ideally over several years, to obtain an understanding of natural variations in occurrence. Currently most studies lack a good understanding of the distribution and abundance of marine mammals before the windfarm construction.;With the number of wind farms being constructed, a standardised method for baseline survey data collection would be useful. The collection of the same type of data in different areas, and providing these data for synoptic metaanalyses, would allow a much better interpretation of the results than from one wind farm alone.;Wind farms are thought to have a direct impact, for example as a barrier to migrating animals. They could also serve as a type of refuge, with less boat traffic and shipping occurring inside the windfarm area, as well as providing hard substrate that can serve as a type of artificial reef (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). How marine mammals adapt to this change in their ecosystem is poorly understood as the monitoring of operating wind farms is generally not a priority once construction is completed. This is especially important when it comes to decommissioning, the final phase of a windfarm development, which, if undertaken, will involve noisy destruction activity (Topham  MacMillan 2017).;The expected lifetime of wind farms is generally a minimum of 25 years, but may be shorter, especially for the earliest old generation sites (Topham  MacMillan 2017). Assuming that marine mammal populations have adapted to their altered habitat in the presence of wind farms, there could be impact if they are taken away. However, current evidence suggests that wholesale removal of subsurface structures will become unlikely, given its difficulty and the fact that there is increasing evidence of the value of wind farms to biodiversity as a result of the renewables to reefs process. This may mean that there is a case for some sites becoming Marine Protected Areas in their own right (Perrow 2019).