Unfortunately, many of the monitoring programmes developed at existing OWFs have not been planned adequately. Some surveys may be limited in the development of survey methods while others may have focused on singlespecies systems. In a review of monitoring programmes for offshore wind projects in Europe, only 33 of the programmes had conducted a power analysis and in only 10 was the study based on a random sampling design (Enhus et al. 2017). Therefore, they may not have been able to deliver results as valuable as was intended, such as on effects on marine communities andor ecosystems, or data that can be used in a wider context (MMO 2014). Nevertheless, there have been many studies on many different species and possible windfarm induced stressorsin the Baltic and North Sea region (reviewed in Bergstrm et al. 2014). The accumulated understanding of the main environmental impacts on fish and marine invertebrates, including the benthic communities, is substantial, although not yet entirely satisfactory with respect to longterm ecological effects (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019).;Thus, it remains critical to carefully design windfarm studies, and this forms the first theme of this chapter. This touches on the principles of what and when to sample, which is also covered to some extent in Box 1.1 in relation to avoiding impacts. The rest of the themes are focused on monitoring the different parts of the faunal assemblage, partly according to their location and including infauna, bottom coverage, epifouling of turbine bases and scour protection, benthic and demersal fish, and benthopelagic and pelagic fish. The basis of monitoring ecosystem functioning is then considered before the Concluding remarks, which are particularly focused on future studies.;To promote the sustainable development of offshore wind power as a primary source of renewable energy, it is essential to assess its effects and impacts. The study design is of great importance to be able to detect changes that can be related to wind farms. Taking a sufficient (depending on variation) number of samples and applying a beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) design are two fundamental ways of strengthening a monitoring programme (Underwood 1994). Baseline studies typically have to be initiated 23 years before construction works begin to allow for sampling of temporal variation in biological parameters, including species composition, populations, biomass and coverage.;The major problem for monitoring programmes is the frequent, if not constant, lack of sufficient statistical power. This can lead to serious consequences, since a potential negative impact may continue without being detected. Statistical power describes how