As a continuously operating acoustic collision detector system, ID Stat can be used to obtain patterns of windfarm effects at broader spatial scales as well as on the timing of collisions (Collier et al. 2012) if used at multiple turbines. One directional microphone is attached at the base of each rotor blade inside the hub of a wind turbine. Sound spectra of collision events are logged and transmitted by the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network. To calibrate ID Stat, objects weighing as little as 2.5 g were shot at the blades of a wind turbine (Delprat  Alcuri 2011). In addition, filtering software eliminates ambient noise from rain and the operational noise from the turbines. Confirmation of collision events was not possible from images or species identification of fatally collided individuals (Collier et al. 2011 2012 Ahmad et al. 2013). ID Stat has been tested with one onshore wind turbine in western France, although to the best of the authorsknowledge the results of this study have not been reported. Likewise, information on its commercial application is not available.;The Thermal Animal Detection System (TADS) was initially developed in the early 2000s (Desholm 2003). This system aims at an automated monitoring of nocturnal bird behaviour and involves an array of three or six thermal imaging cameras targeting the rotorswept area or airspace around a wind turbine (Petersen et al. 2006). Video sequences are automatically downloaded to a hard disc after an object whose temperature exceeds that of a user defined temperature level enters the camera field. TADS records the number of collisions and flight altitude of birds, although potentially all types of activity and behaviour can be captured by the cameras. Bats and smaller birds, including passerines, may potentially be identified under appropriate conditions, but this is dependent on distance and camera quality. Oldgeneration thermal imaging cameras with a resolution of only 320240 pixels had a potential detection range as low as approximately 50 m and a limited ability for species identification (Collier et al. 2011). The system was operated for several years off the Danish coast to assess the collision risk of Common Eider Somateria mollissima (Petersen et al. 2006). The proportion of false positives triggered, for example, by clouds was 99.7. Verification of false positives is feasible by video sequences, but is time consuming.;The Visual Automatic Recording System camera system or VARS was designed to quantify the number of birds and bats passing the rotorswept area of a wind turbine (Schulz et al. 2009 Collier et al. 2012) to assess collision risk. VARS can be positioned on a turbine nacelle, monitoring a radial sector behind the rotor parallel to the plane of the rotorswept area. The opening angle can be adapted to the size of the target species and to the intended detection range, such as the length of rotor blades. Because of its installation on the