The energetic consequences of the increase in flight distance as a result of barrier effects have generally been considered to be minimal (Masden et al. 2009 2010), although they may come into play at the cumulative level (Masden et al. 2009), with impacts on individual fitness perhaps being expressed on the population as a whole. By contrast, McDonald et al. (2012) developed an approach incorporating both barrier and displacement effects from proposed wind farms in the Forth of Tay (southeast Scotland) on the time energy budgets of Common Guillemots breeding on the Isle of May. This method combined information on foraging behaviour and time spent in flight from telemetry data with information on prey distribution. Assuming a random prey distribution, displacementwas predicted to increase flight and foraging costs by 36 and 18, respectively, hence potentially negatively impacting time energy budgets with consequences for breeding success andor adult survival.;Collision risk is a key concern for some species (Furness et al. 2013 King 2019), which is assessed using collision risk models (CRMs). CRMs typically draw upon speciesspecific representative values for a number of parameters that are often taken from reviews of information of variable quality (Band 2012 A. Cook et al. 2012 2014 2018 Masden  Cook 2016 Cook  Masden, Chapter 5). CRMs, however, can be sensitive to the choice of input parameters (Masden  Cook 2016). Telemetry offers the key advantage of providing detailed sitespecific information, albeit often from a small number of individuals, for some key model parameters, that may then facilitate more robust estimation of collision risk. These include (1) flight height, which will inform whether and how often a species flies at the altitude of rotating turbine blades, (2) flight speed, which influences the chances of collision when passing through the rotorswept area, (3) timeactivity budgets, which provide potential time spent in flight and time spent in flight at night, and (4) overall avoidance rate and behaviour (Thaxter et al. 2018a), especially if studies cover pre and postconstruction periods (Harwood et al. 2017). The combination of these parameters within CRMs can be used to estimate the probability of collision and potential numbers of species from protected sites that may be affected by windfarm developments.;The flight height of birds is a key factor in determining their collision risk with turbines offshore (Furness et al. 2013 Cook et al. 2014 2018). Information on flight heights has historically been derived from boatbased surveys (Johnston et al. 2014 Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) or from vertical radar studies (see Molis et al., Chapter 6), but is increasingly being recorded through aerial digital survey methods (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3). Birdborne telemetry, however, provides the potential for estimating flight altitude across all height ranges and weather conditions, for