This chapter reviews the available options for reducing the potential effects of offshore wind farms (OWFs) upon birds through collision, displacement and indirect effects on their prey. Possible options to mitigate bat collision are also reviewed. There are only a few examples of mitigation, and therefore untested theoretical options and approaches used onshore that could translate to the offshore environment are included. As a first step, careful marine spatial planning to locate wind farms in less sensitive areas may avoid some potential impacts. Otherwise, measures to minimise, reduce or compensate for impacts will be required. Modifications to OWF configurations and turbine design, combined with sensitive construction methods, provide clear means of minimising impacts. Where a residual risk of collision remains, this may be reduced by making turbines more visible by painting blades before installation, and deterring birds from approaching turbines, including the use of green lighting for nocturnal migrants. Curtailing turbine operation for migratory species, altering cutin speeds for bats and providing alternative perches for seabirds, which might otherwise use OWF structures, all show promise to mitigate collision losses. However, the options to reduce displacement of sensitive species such as divers (loons) Gavia spp. are limited. Where impacts cannot be reduced to acceptable levels, compensatory measures should beimplemented. These are likely to be site and speciesspecific and for seabirds incorporate a range of strategies from habitat management and predator control at breeding sites, to reducing interactions with fisheries at sea. Repowering affords the opportunity to reduce impacts through refined spatial planning and the use of fewer larger turbines although the renewables to reefs transition may see few OWFs fully decommissioned and baseline conditions restored. Detailed monitoring of effectsimpacts at both a site and cumulative scale remains crucial in order to promote understanding and to test any mitigation measures employed.;While wind energy is a critical component of the efforts to address climate change targets, the construction and operation of offshore wind farms poses a risk to several groups of birds including seabirds (King 2019 Vanermen  Stienen 2019) and nonseabirds, such as migratory waterbirds, passerines and raptors as well as migratory bats (Hppop et al. 2019), which share some similarities with small nocturnally migrating birds. Negative effects from OWFs may result from collisions, displacement including barrier effects, and indirect effects such as reductions in prey availability and other ecosystem effects (Perrow 2019). Reducing any risk of impacts to an acceptable level constitutes a key environmental issue for consenting and public acceptance of wind farms (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Fox et al. 2006 Langston 2013 Schuster et al. 2015 Green et al. 2016). Reduction of negative impacts to an acceptable level must be undertaken with sufficient confidence to ensure that the development is compliant with applicable conservation legislation (Jameson et al. 2019). Thus, consideration of mitigation measures, during for example Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) or Habitats Regulations Assessment (HRA) in relation to European protected sites, is crucial to ensuring that conservation objectives are met (OSPAR 2008). In some countries, such as Australia, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) may also be required, incorporating a mitigation strategy to deal with specific impacts. Statutory bodies may also impose licence conditions that