Radar and visual observers locations should be carefully selected to detect the birds sufficiently early, allowing the shutdown of the turbines in time. Previous studies on bird movements in the area are essential to determine such locations. Depending on the case, and on the birds behaviour in the area, radar and observers may be located around the wind farm or upstream relative to the previously established main flightline(s). Radar sensors could be placed on turbines located at the edge of the wind farm, on other supporting structures that may exist in the area, or even on land, if thewind farm is not far from the coast.;Visual observers may be essential if the shutdown criteria involve the presence of threatened species, which cannot be identified by radar alone. The use of observers could reduce the number of shutdown events, since an automatic radarbased system unable to discriminate target species would have to follow a precautionary approach and therefore trigger unnecessary shutdowns more frequently.;Although this measure is mostly being implemented for soaring birds, with a few exceptions, it could also be applied to other groups of birds such as migratory waterfowl that are included in protected area designations (see Box 4.5 in Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4) although it should be borne in mind that at least some waterfowl show very high rates of avoidance (Plonczkier  Simms 2012).;In relation to seabirds in European waters (information for other parts of the world is scarce), most seabirds do not usually fly at blade height, with the exception of gulls (Larus spp.), skuas (Stercorarius spp.) and Northern Gannet Morus bassanus (Furness et al. 2013a). However, actual mortality estimates from OWFs are virtually absent (King 2019) and deaths are very difficult to measure accurately (Molis et al., Chapter 6). Hence, there is a lack of knowledge on the real impact of offshore turbines, which could be higher than expected during unfavourable weather periods.;Shutdown on demand could also reduce impacts on migratory passerines and other nocturnal migrants. Most of these birds migrate on a broad front, at night and at high altitudes, but they frequently stop at promontories (capes) or islands. Adverse weather conditions associated with signalling lights could increase the attraction factor of OWFs (Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012 Hppop et al. 2019). These fluxes of migrants can be easily detected by radar, either locally, using surveillance radar, or on a wider scale by a network of weather radar sensors (Liechti et al. 2013). Acoustic detection and recording associated with radar could provide species identification. In either case, turbine shutdown, when a predefined threshold on the number of migrants is reached,