One example is the Pacific Oyster Crassostrea gigas (Gutow et al. 2014 de Mesel et al. 2015).;During construction, dredging and trenching also cause short term increased turbidity that can harm both filterfeeding organisms (Rosenberg 1977) and fish eggs and larvae (Westerberg et al. 1996). However, in most circumstances the sediment spill from construction works causes high particle concentrations only over a very localised area, often not exceeding naturally occurring levels farther than 100 m from the source (Bergstrm et al. 2012). Other pollutants that may cause harm to the environment include the fuels and lubricants that could be accidentally spilled from the vessels present throughout the life of the wind farm, but especially in the construction phase (Rees  Judd 2019). Similarly, the cooling agents and lubricants needed for windturbine transmission gear and generators within an operational wind farm may be harmful even if released in very small quantities. A more sitespecific problem is the possible release of old pollutants previously dumped or accumulated in the sediment, if these are suspended during cable trenching or seabed preparation (e.g. gravity foundations require dredging). This specific risk of secondary exposure due to the potential release of toxic sediment was a reason for halting the planning of a windpower project prospected by Vindplats Gteborg in 2014, at an old dredge dump site in the mouth of the Gta lv River on the Swedish west coast.;Electromagnetism is emitted from cables within the wind farm and, to a larger extent, from power cables connecting with land. The electric component of the electromagnetic field (EMF) produced is effectively shielded by cable armour, but the magnetic component persists and, in turn, gives rise to a secondary induced electric field. Elasmobranchs use electric fields to detect prey buried in the sediment and can therefore be disturbed by cables of the kind used in wind farms (Gill 2005 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). It has also been shown that migrating fish, such as eels, can be disturbed by strong magnetic fields, slightly diverting them from their track (Westerberg  Lagenfelt 2008). To date, field experiments conducted at wind farms have not been able to show any significant effects on either benthos or fish, but it is reasonable to believe that windpower cables with strong EMFs can have some level of effect