For the purposes of the planning process, it is not sufficient to present a raw estimate of the number of birds that may collide with wind turbines it is important to understand the consequences of these collisions at a population level. As with the initial models, putting collision estimates into a population context can be fraught with difficulty, with a variety of different approaches available and broad uncertainty surrounding many of the model parameters. Some of the approaches that have been used to assess the populationlevel consequences of collisions are described, whichleads to discussion of their relative strengths and limitations.;The question of cumulative impacts remains. While a single wind farm on its own may have a limited impact on a population, the offshore wind sector is expanding rapidly, with 4,149 turbines installed in European waters to the end of 2017 (WindEurope 2018). The cumulative consequences of this expansion are far from certain, but are likely to outweigh the summed impacts associated with individual projects. As many seabirds are migratory, they may be exposed to different offshore (and onshore) wind farms at different points in their annual cycles (Busch  Garthe 2017). The majority of studies have taken place in northwestern Europe, reflecting the dominance of this region in the deployment of offshore wind to date. However, tracking studies (e.g. Frederiksen et al. 2012 Jessopp et al. 2013) have suggested the potential for trans Atlantic migrations to the east coast of the USA and Canada, where the offshore wind industry is still at a relatively early stage. Such results highlight the need for careful consideration of spatial scale in the assessment of cumulative impacts. Additional challenges relate to the temporal scales over which impacts may occur and understanding how these impacts may interact with one another (Masden et al. 2010). Consequently, the approaches used to assess cumulative impacts to date have largely been found to be inadequate (Willsteed et al. 2017). Some of the key data gaps relating to effective cumulative impact assessment are briefly described in this chapter.