Relevant information was sourced by extensive searches of research archives such as Web of Science and Google Scholar, using combinations of (1) general key words, such as telemetry, tracking, birdborne, biologging, logger, instrument, tag and device (2) specific groups of telemetry devices, such as GPS, Doppler, PTT, geolocator and GSM (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011) (3) dataretrieval capability of systems satellite, archival, data storage, download, transmitter and receiver (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011) (4) terms such as offshore renewable energy,development, installation, wind farm, turbine, construction, operation and impact assessment (5) terms for sensitivity and exposure to, or regarding specific effects, such as connectivity, interaction, sensitivity, exposure, vulnerability, overlap, flight height, barrier effect, collision risk, displacement and habitat loss (6) specific species groupings, including seabird, marine bird, wader and waterbird and (7) phases of the annual cycle, including migration, breeding and nonbreeding.;Although telemetry and tracking studies on relevant bird species have been undertaken all over the world, most of the work focused on interactions between bird and wind farms has been conducted in Europe, simply because this has been the epicentre of the global industry (Jameson et al. 2019). As such, most work cited in this chapter is European in origin. However, several other countries such as China and the USA now have some existing sites, with many more proposed (e.g. Da et al. 2011 Winiarski et al. 2014). At the time of writing, numerous tracking projects have recently taken place or are ongoing in the USA (e.g. Spiegel et al. 2017 UMass Amherst 2018 USGS 2018) to assess potential risks of proposed wind farms, and these are included where relevant.;The information gathered illustrated that tracking technology may be used in all stages of different stages of the planning process and development stages. During scoping, for example, telemetry may be used to determine spatial and temporal exposure of sensitive birds to potential effects, which then may assist in the prediction of effects in EIA or HRA concerning a site of European importance for particular bird populations. Once a wind farm has been consented and constructed, studying any changes in the movements and behaviour of target species especially in comparison to the baseline preconstruction scenario, can help to show whether birds have been displaced or attracted or broadly unaffected, and may help to elucidate the mechanisms involved. The rapid advance in the use of telemetry to determine finescale movements offers the opportunity to learn how birds respond to the presence of turbines offshore, although this is still perhaps in its infancy compared to the use of radar (e.g. Plonczkier  Simms 2012) and multisensor systems (see Molis et al., Chapter 6).