Bird collision mortality is generally perceived as a major conflict issue for windpower development (Drewitt  Langston 2006 de Lucas  Perrow 2017 Thaxter et al. 2017), with the nature and magnitude of collision risk being site and species specific (May et al. 2017 Thaxter et al. 2017). In evolutionary terms, birds are adapted to a life on the wing attuned to their surrounding environment. Successfully mitigating collision risk therefore needs to be founded on a species sensory and movement ecology (Martin 2011 May 2015 Nathan et al. 2008), enabling them to avoid humanmade structures in due time (May et al. 2015 May 2017). The main differences between natural and anthropogenic obstacles are that (1) anthropogenic structures can occur in environments where such structures are not natural, such as offshore wind turbines, and (2) anthropogenic structures can include materials and shapes that may be perceived as unnatural by birds, such as visually unobtrusive light grey smooth surfaces and rotating turbine blades. Martin (2011) suggests that birds may assume the environment ahead to be without obstructions, and rather use their lateral vision to detect movement relating to conspecifics, foraging opportunities or predators.;Most birds that collide with wind turbines fly into the rotor blades. The extent to which it is possible to increase the perception of wind turbines as dangerous for birds, enabling evasive manoeuvres to come into play, has not been investigated in situ. What seems clear is that birds do not see the rotating blades at close range because of motion smear (Hodos 2003). Motion smear occurs when the rotor blades rotate quickly (up to 250 kmh at the blade tip), making them partially transparent and blurred. The reason the birds are unable to avoid such situations may be that they are unable to perceive rotor blades in motion, lose manoeuvrability because of turbulence close to a wind turbine or fail to respond adequately in time through avoidance (May 2015). Mitigation measures to reduce collisions should therefore primarily focus on increasing the visibility of the rotor blades to birds. However, some species, such as Smla Willow Ptarmigan Lagopus lagopus variegatus, are known to collide with the