Electromagnetism is emitted from cables within the wind farm and, to a larger extent, from power cables connecting with land. The electric component of the electromagnetic field (EMF) produced is effectively shielded by cable armour, but the magnetic component persists and, in turn, gives rise to a secondary induced electric field. Elasmobranchs use electric fields to detect prey buried in the sediment and can therefore be disturbed by cables of the kind used in wind farms (Gill 2005 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). It has also been shown that migrating fish, such as eels, can be disturbed by strong magnetic fields, slightly diverting them from their track (Westerberg  Lagenfelt 2008). To date, field experiments conducted at wind farms have not been able to show any significant effects on either benthos or fish, but it is reasonable to believe that windpower cables with strong EMFs can have some level of effecton sensitive animals (Lagenfelt et al. 2012).;In contrast, in theory, the noise and vibration energies from pile driving are a more severe threat to the ecosystem at least in the shortterm. Pile driving is required to install the more common monopole turbine designs as well as the pin piles associated with jacket and tripod designs (Jameson et al. 2019). The assumed acute effects on fish caused by piledriving noise during construction include behavioural changes, such as escape, avoidance, relocation and change of community structure. The physiological effects include acute tissue or barotrauma damage induced by seismic pressure waves to animals with airfilled cavities, often followed by low survival rates (Nedwell et al. 2003a Mller 2007 Popper  Hastings 2009 Bailey et al. 2010). During operation of a wind farm, noise emissions are low, but they increase with turbine and wind farm size (Nedwell et al. 2003a). It has been shown that some fish species can be stressed by operational noise as a lowintensity stressor (Engs et al. 1995 Kastelein et al. 2008 Caiger et al. 2012) by having, for example, an increased respiration rate (Wikstrm  Granmo 2008). Continuous noise has also been shown to impair reproductive success in Atlantic Cod (SierraFlores et al. 2015). Still, habituation can occur when fish are continuously exposed to noise levels comparable to those in harbours and areas of intense shipping activity. Indirect effects of noise on fish include the masking of natural sounds or bioacoustics (Wahlberg  Westerberg 2005 Simpson et al. 2015). In many fish species, the use of sound is common for finding prey, avoiding predators, interspecies communication, finding a mate, and even for orientation and navigation. Noise has also been shown to act as a settling cue for fish and decapod species (Montgomery et al. 2006). Consequently, species abundance and community dynamics can be affected negatively in operational wind farms. Elasmobranchs, for example, have welldeveloped ears and sound plays an important role in their lives, although there are as yet no studies on the impact of OWF construction and operational noise on elasmobranchs.;To date, noise effects on marine invertebrates have also not been studied. However, the response to noise in invertebrates is rather speciesspecific and cannot be generalised. Crustaceans, such as shrimps, krills, crabs and lobsters, respond with a high variation in