As part of the planning process, predicted collision rates must be considered in the context of the population(s) concerned, and assessed at a cumulative scale as well as at the level of the individual project. A variety of approaches exist to enable this. In recent years, assessments for OWFs in Europe have used potential biological removal (PBR) (e.g. Skov et al. 2012 Ministry of Economic Affairs 2015 Busch  Garthe 2016), whereby predicted collision rates are assessed against estimates of the number of additional mortalities a population can sustain. Some projects have also used population viability analysis (PVA), whereby predicted collision rates are incorporated into population models and projected over the life of a development. These analyses canconsider either the collisions associated with single projects or the cumulative consequences associated with multiple projects.;Uncertainty is inherent in the assessment process for OWFs (Masden et al. 2015). In relation to collision risk, it is drawn into the process through a range of parameters, including (1) those used in the CRM itself, (2) demographic parameters used in the population model, (3) the demographic consequences of any predicted impacts, and (4) decisions about how to incorporate cumulative impacts. This has contributed to significant concerns regarding the assessment of impacts associated with OWFs (Green et al. 2016 OBrien et al. 2017).;Based on the authors experiences providing advice as part of the consenting process for OWFs, this chapter highlights the role of CRMs in decision making, drawing from recently published papers on the topic. How collision risk modelling has evolved as the wind industry has developed, both onshore and offshore, is discussed, highlighting differences between models that are used onshore and offshore and possible reasons for these differences. However, it is worth noting that all models are wrong, but some are useful (Box et al. 2005). With this in mind, this chapter highlights the limitations of CRMs, many of which relate to uncertainties associated with the data that are used and a lack of model validation. The implications of these limitations for the planning process are considered, drawing in the views of stakeholders, where appropriate (Box 5.1).;For the purposes of the planning process, it is not sufficient to present a raw estimate of the number of birds that may collide with wind turbines it is important to understand the consequences of these collisions at a population level. As with the initial models, putting collision estimates into a population context can be fraught with difficulty, with a variety of different approaches available and broad uncertainty surrounding many of the model parameters. Some of the approaches that have been used to assess the populationlevel consequences of collisions are described, which