GPS loggers or transmitters are a type of tracking system bywhich data of high temporal and spatial resolution, including altitude, are gathered (Corman  Garthe 2014). The mass of contemporary GPS devices is as low as 1 g, and they have an accuracy of about 10 m and operational life of 12 years (McKinnon  Love 2018). They can be used for localisation of birds with a body mass of more than 100 g, such as waders, ducks, geese or raptors. Data readout of GPS devices is possible after animal recapture or automated data transmission to nearby receiving facilities. In the case of the International Cooperation for Animal Research Using Space (ICARUS) project, the receiving antenna is mounted on the international space station or on airplanes (Wikelski et al. 2007).;Geolocators are devices that represent the third stage of development in animal tracking technology. They record light levels over time to estimate longitude and latitude (Stutchbury et al. 2009 Lisovski et al. 2012). The advantage of geolocators is their extremely low mass (0.35 g), which comes at the costs of rendering at most one position per day and a low positioning accuracy, particularly around the vernal and autumnal equinoxes (Lisovski et al. 2012 McKinnon  Love 2018). Moreover, data export requires retrieval of geolocators (McKinnon  Love 2018).;Tracking technology has at least three major advantages over other remotesensing techniques in the quantification of offshore avian collision risk. First, individual behavioural responses of birds and bats to offshore wind turbines can, theoretically, be recorded at all relevant spatiotemporal scales (Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4), providing modellers with urgently needed information on avoidance rates (Green et al. 2016). Secondly, tracking will enhance the quality of environmental impact assessments during the pre construction period through databased determinations of distance limits of wind farms around, for instance, bird colonies (Perrow et al. 2006 Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4). Thirdly, tagging studies may be relatively inexpensive in the context of an intensive programme of digital aerial or boatbased surveys (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) or an intensive study of bird collision risk using multisensor systems (see MUSE, below Skov et al. 2018). Limitations of using tracking devices involve bird capture and tag mounting, which may impose stresses on birds, as may non