(2016), who argued that densityindependent models are likely to reflect a more precautionary approach to assessing the risk associated with OWFs. Cook  Robinson (2017) further argue that while deterministic models may reflect a simpler approach, where the data allow, stochastic models should be used as these result in predictions which are inherently more conservative. Populations should be modelled with and without the impact associated with a wind farm, and the outputs from these models should be compared. A matchedruns approach (Green et al. 2016 Cook  Robinson 2017), whereby impacted and unimpacted populations are assumed to have identical demographic parameters, save for the impact associated with the wind farm, should be used. This both reduces the uncertainty in the final outputs and ensures that any difference between the final populations reflects the impact associated with the wind farm only, and not random variation in the underlying demographic parameters.;While matrix models are the most widespread approach used for PVA in relation to offshore windfarm assessment, they are by no means the only approach. Approaches such as individualbased models (IBMs) have been applied to the assessment of the effects of other renewable energy developments, such as tidal barrages, on birds (Burton et al. 2010). Such approaches scale up individual behaviour to the population level, enabling a more accurate representation of demographic process than is possible for matrix models, which summarise these data across a population. Mackenzie et al. (2010) used an IBM to assess the impact of the Docking Shoal, Race Bank and Dudgeon OWFs on the North Norfolk Coast Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis population (Box 5.3). A key advantage of this approach was that it enabled greater consideration of the importance of different model parameters. This meant that it was possible to put collisionrelated mortality estimates into the context of other sources of mortality such as severe weather events or predation by Red Fox Vulpes vulpes and other predators. Similarly, WarwickEvans et al. (2017) developed an IBM to investigate the impact of wind farms in the English