In comparison to other taxa, marine mammal populations can be extremely challenging to monitor. As outlined by Nehls et al. (2019), the term marine mammals includes a diverse group, ranging from species that spend their entire life in the water, such as cetacea and sirenia, to some that spend part of their life cycle on land or ice, such as pinnipeds. Individuals are generally only visible when they come to the surface to breathe, or in the case of pinnipeds when they haul out on coasts, ice floes or sandbars. Perhaps most challenging of all, some species are distributed throughout large areas and migrate over long distances, requiring any comprehensive study to commission substantial surveyresources and obtain the cooperation of multiple national jurisdictions. In addition, in the offshore areas typically utilised for windfarm development, strong winds and heavy seas prevail. This presents significant challenges for the physical study of marine mammals as surveys are most effective during calm sea conditions. As such, there may be limited windows of opportunity to access the study area, by either boat or aircraft, to collect sufficient data to detect any significant change in marine mammal behaviour and distribution. This is further compounded by the short duration of windfarm construction, which again limits the time available to collect adequate data. Ideally, absolute abundance estimates with associated measurements of uncertainty should be obtained from monitoring programmes however, relative abundance indices can also be used if the main aim of monitoring is to document changes compared to the baseline.;In terms of potential interactions between marine mammals and wind farms, two groups have been considered thus far small cetaceans and pinnipeds. This chapter will focus on monitoring methods suitable for these groups. The aim of monitoring the abundance, distribution and behaviour of small cetaceans and pinnipeds in relation to windfarm developments is to detect changes over time and to relate any perceived change to natural variation, conservation action or anthropogenic activities. When the first wind farms were installed, only discrete areas were affected, and at that time, it was thought unlikely that entire populations of typically wideranging species would be affected. As such, initial studies focused on the individuals that inhabited the waters in close proximity to the development. However, there are some cases where the potential impact from windfarm development can cover entire subpopulations of small cetaceans, for example the Moray Firth Bottlenose Dolphin Tursiops truncatus in Scotland and the Eastern Taiwan Strait Humpback Dolphin Sousa chinensis in Taiwan. As wind farms proliferate throughout European waters, larger swathes of both coastal and offshore areas are being developed. Since development is proposed to increase rapidly throughout the next decade, there is a growing concern that the cumulative impacts of multiple and concurrent windfarm development could be significant. There is emerging literature that indicates that wind