In relation to migratory birds in particular, lighting appears to be the single most important attractant, with nocturnal migrants such as passerines appearing to be particularly drawn to the red lights that are commonly used (Erickson et al. 2001 Desholm 2006 Poot et al. 2008). Legislation usually dictates that offshore structures must have various forms of lowintensity lighting to aid aircraft and maritime navigation. Research into the effects of lighting at a North Sea gas rig on migrating birds inferred that changing the exterior lights for ones low in spectral red, thus appearing green, reduced the numbers of birds circling for prolonged periods or landing on the rig (van de Laar 2007 Poot et al. 2008). Moreover, birds appear to be are less disoriented by blue and green light containing less or no visible longwavelength radiation (Poot et al. 2008), and where green light was used, van de Laar (2007) suggested a minimum reduction of 50 of anyimpacts, with up to 90 possible.;It is currently thought that turbines should use the minimum number of intermittent flashing white lights of lowest effective intensity (Hppop et al. 2006). While there is potential to further develop birdfriendly artificial lighting, the approach generally remains unproven and there is scope for confounding effects on different species of birds with different visual acuity. Further research and trials are required to provide a sound basis for the adoption of a specific lighting configuration. Cook et al. (2011) surmised that changes to lighting could be an effective mitigation option, but noted that legislation and safety concerns limit possible application.;The use of a wind farm by birds conceivably carries an increased threat of collision should the species involved use the airspace occupied by turbine blades. Gulls and terns, and especially cormorants, will readily utilise windfarm structures as perches. For example, gulls have routinely been seen resting on windfarm structures within the Bligh Bank OWF (Vanermen et al. 2015 Figure 8.7 in Vanermen  Stienen 2019). This behaviour may be especially prevalent before the turbine is constructed, although substations may continue to be used after construction. In the study by Harwood et al. (2017) (see also Box 10.2 in Perrow 2019), Sandwich Terns readily used navigation buoys within 400 m of an operational wind farm (Figure 8.7), but were not recorded using the bases of the operational turbines themselves.