There are many acoustic devices that can be deployed in the long term at fixed locations (SousaLima et al. 2013). These devices collect data continuously, which can be used to discern trends in habitat use and record behavioural patterns. For some species, such as deepdiving odontocetes, static devices have a higher detection rate than visual surveys (e.g. McDonald  Moore 2002 Mellinger  Barlow 2003 Barlow  Taylor 2005). As static devices do not produce any sound unlike survey vessels, these devices are less likely to disturb marine mammals away from the survey area. However, other analytical problems may occur if the devices become objects of interest that marine mammals investigate acoustically. As most static acoustic devices archive data and need to be retrieved to obtain these data, there are considerable logistical challenges in both deployment and retrieval. Several new systems, for example, the Coastal Acoustic Buoy (Turner et al. 2019), are promising as they can relay acoustic information from remote areas and in real time, thus allowing reliable and fast data transfer without having to retrieve the device.;One disadvantage of static acoustic devices is that they have limited spatial coverage compared to towed acoustic surveys. Therefore, most static acoustic device surveys require the deployment of multiple devices to obtain sufficient spatial coverage and to account for variance in detection between locations. Estimation of population density using PAM is developing rapidly, particularly with regard to static acoustic devices, and new analytical methods, including spatially explicit capturerecapture models, are playing an increasing role in this field (e.g. McDonald  Fox 1999 Tougaard et al. 2006 Van Parijs et al. 2009 Marques et al. 2013).;Static acoustic devices play a dual role in windfarm monitoring as they can also be used to measure construction noise, particularly highimpulse piling sounds. These data can then be used to validate noiseimpact models and predicted impacts on marine mammal hearing apparatus (NMFS 2018), as well as to assess the effectiveness of mitigation measures. Noise modelling is now an