The most straightforward method for quantifying wind turbine induced fatalities of birds or bats would be searching for carcasses beneath turbines, typically known as fatality monitoring (Huso et al. 2017). This approach is, with some limitations, applicable onshore but is unfeasible offshore because carcasses retrieval is virtually impossible at sea. Hppop et al. (2016), for instance, estimated that up to 90 of carcasses are likely to be missed at an offshore research platform with an 80 m high lattice tower, such as FINO 1. In contrast to many types of wind turbines, FINO 1 is equipped with a 256 m2 platform 20 m a.s.l., on which Aumller et al. (2015) determined the average retention time of bird carcasses to be 27 days. Nevertheless, the ratio of carcass catchment area to collision relevant area is much larger for research platforms such as FINO 1 than for wind turbines. The large size of the rotor blades in combination with higher wind speeds at sea further complicates the retrieval of carcasses as they scatter over a larger area than on land. Hence, it seems quite unlikely that carcass searches around offshore wind turbines recapture birds and bats injured or killed by the turbine. Moreover, as the time of collision is unknown, it is impossible to reconstruct the environmental conditions that prevailed at the time of collision (KornerNievergelt et al. 2013 Hppop et al. 2016). Such knowledge, for instance on weather conditions, would provide hints on possible processes underlying collision events. The use of floating barriers or nets, which may prevent fatal casualties from being lost, seems likely to be constrained by the technical issues of securing these structuresagainst waves and currents, particularly during storm events. Yet, the few available areas in a wind farm where carcasses can be retrieved, such as converter stations and working or landing decks, can provide qualitative information on species identity of the victims and the circumstances surrounding collision, such as time of day or night and weather conditions at the time (e.g. Baerwald et al. 2008 Hppop et al. 2016). Consequently, carcass recovery yields highly variable, erroneous estimates of collision risk and impact, but in combination with weather information, radar andor acoustic measurements, carcass counts can complement collision risk assessment (Aumller et al. 2011 Hppop et al. 2016).;No single method can comprehensively assess the impact of wind turbines on bird or bat populations (Hppop et al. 2006 Kunz et al. 2007). To achieve this goal, monitoring methods must allow taxonomic identification of all species during daytime and even more so at night, which normally is the period of highest migratory activity, and under adverse weather conditions, such as rain and fog. These demands have led to the design of multidetector systems in which the advantages of different remotesensing methods are combined to optimise spatiotemporal resolution and maximise the empirical database for CRMs. Several multisensor systems exist in different stages of development (Dirksen 2017). A brief overview on (1) three systems using multiple devices of the same type of sensor and (2) six systems using devices of different types of sensors is presented in Box 6.3, while Table 6.1 compares the performance and configuration of the (five) referenced systems of the latter group. The following paragraphs provide more detail on eight of the systems (excluding the MultiBird system listed in Box 6.3).