The quantity and quality of data that telemetry studies facilitate are extremely detailed (Bailey et al. 2014 Aarts et al. 2016a) and provide the basis for indepth investigations of the impact of humanactivities, including windfarm development, on marine mammals (Aarts et al. 2016b Wisniewska et al. 2016, 2018). There are multiple types of telemetry systems and electronic tags that may be attached to marine mammals, but as with all studies, the underpinning biological question and the characteristics of the species that is to be tagged will determine the specific method or technique used in this case, the configuration of the telemetry system. Most tags actively record the location of the animal to which they are attached however, with a variety of other sensors now available, other behavioural or physiological data from the tagged individual andor the surrounding environment (e.g. time, depth, orientation, temperature, salinity, noise and vocalisations) can also be recorded (Madsen et al. 2006 Hussey et al. 2015 Read 2018). Information can be archived on tags for later retrieval and download, which may be difficult to achieve, or can be transmitted directly via cellular networks, wireless or satellite links. There are myriad options for telemetry studies and at the core of this field is the flexibility of modern tag design (McConnell et al. 2010).;While tag sizes have reduced considerably in recent years, as processors and storage components have been miniaturised, the issue of tag impact remains, both through attachment procedures and the wearing of the tag. In most cases, tag attachment necessitates capturing the individual. For pinnipeds, this can be accomplished during haulout periods, when individuals can be more easily accessed on ice floes, sandbars or beaches. For small cetaceans, however, telemetry device attachment involves considerably more effort as individuals generally must be caught at sea and capture and attachment procedures can be highly stressful for the individuals concerned (Norman et al. 2004 Eskesen et al. 2009). Typically, longterm tag attachment to small cetaceans involves stitching and pinning tags on to the skin, often through the dorsal fin (Geertsen et al. 2004). For larger whales, where capture is not an option, tags can be lodged into the blubber layer using penetrative spars (Double et al. 2014). There are also several telemetry systems that have been successfully attached via suction cups, which is considerably less stressful to the individual, although the tags attachment duration is generally shorter than with other attachment methods (Tyack et al. 2006 Wisniewska et al. 2016,