(2012) was achieved by breaking the site into four blocks in the corners of the site to provide flight corridors or undisturbed space between them (see Figure 8.2). Flight corridors do not appear to have been trialled directly offshore, perhaps partly as there is only limited evidence that birds will use them (Harwood et al. 2017). Any benefit of flight corridors seems most likely to be maximised where migration or foraging pathways are intersected by the development, which would otherwise operate as a barrier to movement. However, while corridors may reduce barrier effects, the funnelling and concentration of birds between the component parts of a wind farm may actually increase collision risk in some cases. As a result, the location, orientation and stability of the main flightlines should be established in detail before considering such an approach. Otherwise, barrier effects may be reduced simply by changing the orientation of the site, especially if this is a line of turbines, to align with the direction of the principal flight path (Winkelman 1992 Figure 8.2). This may go some way towards reducing any increased energetic costs that could be incurred, particularly by birds that regularly encounter one or more OWFs (Masden et al. 2010).;Finally, minimising any potential impacts of disturbance by construction and maintenance vessels should also be considered. In this case, the routes adopted by vessels should look to avoid important bird areas both within and outside the wind farm, keeping the footprint of the routes as small as possible. In some cases, this may involve adjustment of speed or engine noise to reduce disturbance and the risk of displacement of birds.;Turbine design can strongly influence the probability of bird collisions (Anderson et al. 1999). The offshore industry generally uses the classic horizontalaxis threeblade monopole structures, although there are some twobladed turbines such as the Forthwind Offshore Wind Demonstration Project (Methil, Scotland), with other designs such as the verticalaxis concept in development. Thus, while there is scope for different designs in the future, current technology is largely limited to a single design. In turn, any