The technical design of a wind farm has an influence on how individual turbine foundations are positioned in relation to benthic habitats. If turbines are located in seagrass beds, mussel beds or other biotopes of particular ecological value, the benthic footprint will be more detrimental than if turbines are positioned on less vulnerable biotopes, such as mud and sand bottoms. It is, however, generally difficult to determine the exact positioning of turbines in a wind farm at the consent stage as a result of the rapid technological development of the type and size of foundations and turbines. Wind farms are therefore often planned according to the box model, meaning that the outer borders of the wind farm are determined and the design of the wind farm inside this box is only indicated according to a design envelope. In cases where vulnerable or particularly valuable biotopes are present inside the windfarm area, it can be difficult to ensure that these sites are avoided during the final design. A suggested solution to this is that the consenting authorities apply legal conditions, stating that the final positioning of foundations and cable trenches must avoid ecologically valuable sites during the micrositing phase.;The design of a wind farm may also influence how hydrodynamics are affected, with a relatively dense wind farm having more potential impact than a more sparsely designed wind farm with a lot of space between turbines. Moreover, it has been postulated that a wind farm that captures a large portion of the incoming wind may induce an artificial upwelling in the wake caused on the lee side (Brostrm 2008), and field evidence supporting this theory has been gathered (Brostrm et al. 2019).;Timing of construction events can be an important element of risk mitigation (Bergstrm et al. 2012 Hammar et al. 2012). It is well known that pile driving generates hazardous high intensity sound and that dredging under certain conditions can cause locally harmful levels of dissolved particles. Seasonal