This chapter collates the scope and limitations of technology and methods to quantify the density, identity, flight height and behaviour of bats and birds in the offshore environment, including both seabirds and migratory landbirds such as passerines and waterfowl. Such information is needed because offshore windfarm development has reached the industrial stage in European waters and is now rapidly increasing in many countries around the world such as in Southeast Asia and the USA. Development poses direct and indirect threats to wildlife, particularly in a cumulative context. Many aspects of animalturbine interactions appear to be site, season and species specific, so that uncertainties about the magnitude of threats and potential impacts remain. Quantification of bat and bird activity and riskassociated behaviour is especially challenging in the offshore environment for practical reasons, such as technical constraints on measurements (e.g. wave impact on acoustic and radar detection) as well as for reasons of remoteness and limited accessibility, thus demanding the use of elaborate remotesensing techniques rather than observerbased visual observations. The practicability of a range of methods and techniques to achieve these aims is introduced and described, witha focus on multisensor systems. These systems intend to maximise the quality of bird and bat data needed as input for collision risk models. The quality of existing risk models would greatly benefit from (1) improved input data through technical advances of both wellestablished and more recently developed methods, such as advanced radars, thermal imaging devices, video cameras (visual and shortwave infrared light), radio and satellite telemetry, and acoustic analysis software, and (2) adjusted parameterisation, such as the effects of avoidance or attraction of wind turbines and variability in these input parameters. A recommendation for what is considered to be the best available practical solution to quantify interactions of birds and bats with offshore wind farms is provided.;Growing concerns over the effects of climate change, tied with a growing recognition of the vast potential of using offshore wind power and its immediate proximity to major human population centres around the globe, have created worldwide markets and increasing demand for this clean and renewable energy source. Following the lead of countries such as the UK, with just under 36 of installed capacity in 2016, and Germany with 29, new offshore projects in countries such as China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the USA are quickly coming on line (GWEC 2016 Bundesverband WindEndergie 2018 Jameson et al. 2019). Offshore wind energy could conceivably contribute to population declines in birds and bats as a result of the industrys spatial scale and potential for expansion (Hppop et al. 2019), as shown or suspected for some vulnerable species groups onshore (Perrow 2017). For migratory landbirds and all bats, crossing the open sea poses a higher risk than flying over land simply because of the almost total lack of landing opportunities at sea. Anecdotal reports (e.g. Aumller et al. 2011) and longterm data on bird activity around illuminated, anthropogenic offshore structures (Hppop et al. 2016) also illustrate the potential attraction and collision risk for migratory birds in particular, but also resident seabirds (reviewed in Ballasus et al. 2009 Orr et al. 2013 Ronconi et al. 2015). About onethird of