Initially, MSP could not effectively follow up or even set an appropriate agenda on where to site (or exclude) OWFs. For example, the German offshore wind energy strategy was launched in 2002 while OWF project planning and permitting procedures started immediately. The first MSP plan was approved 7 years later, in 2009. Although including its own inherent Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), the first German MSP processwas, to some degree, predefined since the planning and assessment processes drew on previous projectlevel OWF permitting and Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures, rather than identifying where these projects would be best placed (Kppel et al. 2017). Future pathways of MSP and delivery of relevant SEA may yet become more sophisticated, although key questions remain Can MSP be applied in a timely manner? Can MSP actually become a powerful and proactive tool for OWF planning and assessment?;This chapter aims to illustrate how MSP emerged over time and how it has coincided with offshore wind energy development (see Figure 9.1 in Box 9.1). By highlighting issues in planning, such as environmental assessment, transboundary cooperation, colocation and stakeholder integration, the aim is not only to describe the status quo of MSP but also to pinpoint what is to be expected from marine plans in the future. This chapter draws on case study examples, mainly from Europe, the knowledge and expertise of the authors, and the body of scholarly work published on MSP.;In conducting a nonsystematic literature review, the range of data gathered included peerreviewed research articles, grey literature, guidance material, and case study and policy documents. The literature search was conducted using various search engines, including Scopus, Science Direct, Tethys and Web of Knowledge, applying the following key words and combinations thereof marine spatial planning, maritime spatial planning, offshore energy, offshore wind energy, strategic environmental assessment (SEA) for marine spatial plans, MSP for renewable energies, and exclusive economic zone. Data collection for the chapter took place from November 2017 to September 2018.;The authors prior experience with the emergence of MSP, especially in Germany and its early SEA approaches, may be summarised as follows. At the time of writing, Johann Kppel and Gesa Geiler serve as members of the scientific advisory board for the amendment of the MSP plans for the German EEZs in the North and Baltic Seas. Experiences of the initial phases of Englands MSP