With the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission, otherwise known as the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), founded in 1974, and the OsloParis Convention (OSPAR 1992), there are intergovernmental structures that pursue objectives for the entire Baltic Sea and North Sea and that require crossborder coordination. HELCOM aims to expand crosssectoral cooperation in reaching a good environmental status of the Baltic Sea, regulating marine activities, reducing the discharge of hazardous substances and implementing the ecosystem approach in MSP (HELCOM 2018). In the North Sea, OSPAR is leading international cooperationfor marine environmental protection in the North East Atlantic. MSP is seen as an instrument for controlling human activities, especially regarding wind energy. The guidance on environmental considerations for the development of OWFs recommends minimising negative effects by careful site selection, for example, by avoiding important bird habitats and migration routes (OSPAR Commission 2008). Such guidance from intergovernmental institutions can lead to better practice and to harmonised approaches for MSP and environmental assessments.;The question of colocation of OWF with other uses, including MPAs, has entered the arena (Christie et al. 2014 Yates et al. 2015 Astariz amp Iglesias 2016). A further discourse links the OWF planning and permitting processes to the ecosystem services concept (Hooper et al. 2017), covering also the wellknown land based green vs green dilemma in which climate protection via renewable energy is pitched against the wellbeing of biodiversity. Hooper et al. (2017) published a review of 78 publications, which exemplarily compiled ecosystem services provided by OWFs. This scholarly work shows that negative effects, such as the role of wind farms in introducing invasive species and the decrease in the appeal of the seascape to tourists, as well as positive effects, such as the proliferation of filterfeeding mussels and the artificial reef effect (Dannheim et al. 2019), temporary carbon capture and the potential for attraction of tourists, should be accounted for. Gee amp Burkhard (2018) further discuss coastalmarine cultural ecosystem services as sense of place or regional image.;Tradeoffs between industries, for instance fisheries and marine renewables, should also be evaluated, which could, in turn, identify potential for colocation opportunities (KitePowell 2017). Kite Powell (2017) identify transitory and nontransitory and production functions of OWFs in the form of regulating and supporting, cultural and provisioning. For example, Stelzenmller et al. (2016) show that in 2010 and 2011 up to 90 of Danish (range 1090) and 40 of German (in total 2080) gillnet fleet landings of European Plaice Pleuronectes platessa (a flatfish) overlapped with