One advantage of boatbased surveys is that additional environmental and ecological data relevant to marine mammal distribution can be collected, including water temperature, salinity, depth and measures of biological productivity, such as theabundance of phytoplankton (expressed as chlorophyll a) or even fish (often measured with hydroacoustics) (e.g. Scott et al. 2010 Certain et al. 2011). Often, marine mammal vessel surveys also provide a platform for other taxa, such as seabirds, to be observed. Conversely, in the UK for example, surveys for seabirds often accommodate marine mammal surveys (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3). A further advantage of using vessels is that passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) using towed hydrophone arrays can be conducted simultaneously with visual observations during the day, and as a sole means of detection both at night and when sea conditions are not conducive for visual observations (see Passive acoustic monitoring surveys using towed arrays, below).;Another important factor in survey design considerations is the speed at which surveys should be conducted. Ideally, survey speed must be twice that of the swim speed of the species likely to be encountered, so that bias due to animal speed might be avoided. Further biases may also derive from animals responses to the boat itself, either by attraction or through avoidance. If an animal or a group of animals is attracted to a vessel to bow ride, a behaviour exhibited by many dolphin species (e.g. Shortbeaked Common Dolphin Delphinus delphis), abundance can be considerably overestimated if not corrected for (Caadas et al. 2004). Some species, such as Harbour Porpoise, may also avoid vessels and therefore abundance can be underestimated (Turnock  Quinn 1991 Hyrenbach 2001 Palka  Hammond 2001 Clarke et al. 2003). It is here that good survey design plays a critical role in minimising potential biases and by being able to detect and measure any biases.;Aerial surveys using distance sampling methods have been conducted from fixedwing aircraft (e.g. Hammond et al. 2002), helicopters (Southwell 2005), microlights (Rowat et al. 2009 Jean et al. 2010) and blimps (Hain et al. 1999 Frstenau Oliveira et al. 2017). Aerial surveys can also be conducted as manned or unmanned digital surveys (see Digital aerial surveys). A key consideration when planning aerial surveys is that fuel capacity is