The extension of protected areas around important seabird colonies into the offshore realm, to encompass foraging grounds (e.g. see Perrow et al. 2015 and other examples therein) is one possible way of enhancing the protection afforded to breeding seabirds and could improve or maintain colony productivity. There are many examples of habitat management and enhancement for seabirds (other than predator control see below), such as those undertaken for Roseate Tern Sterna dougallii in the UK, through vegetation management, the provision of nest boxes on specially constructed terraces, and even the configuration of an island (Blue Circle Island) created from dredge spoil and quarry workings, to make it suitable for breeding terns (Cabot  Nisbet 2013). Habitat alterations are less feasible at sea, although other structures may be added, such as buoys or rafts that could, for example, provide social centres or resting sites between foraging bouts (see Luring birds away from wind farms, above).Specifically, in terms of compensatoryhabitat, Schippers et al. (2009) found that the loss of portarea habitat could result in a serious decline in the breeding population of Common Terns Sterna hirundo, but that compensation within the ports resulted in negligible declines, and the creation of extra breeding habitat outside the ports, in fishrich waters, had a beneficial effect on the metapopulation.;The timing of implementation of compensatory measures needs to be carefully planned, as it may take a considerable amount of time to create and establish new habitat or put measures to control predators in place. Any benefits need to be realised at the same time as any negative effects begin to truly offset any impacts. This could involve implementing plans even before the OWF is constructed, such as in the case of the onshore site at Beinn an Tuirc, Scotland, where a preconstruction habitat management plan was implemented to reduce prey availability in the site and enhance foraging habitat for Golden Eagles Aquila chrysaetos away from it (Walker et al. 2005).;The enhancement of prey in the offshore environment is intuitively rather more difficult than onshore, although the serious, often negative interactions between seabirds and fisheries provides several possibilities, specifically as there is compelling evidence that many bird populations are limited by human overexploitation of shared prey species (e.g. Croxall et al. 2012 Cury et al. 2012). Thus, the closure or adaptation of fisheries may enhance prey stocks for seabirds (e.g. Daunt et al. 2008). Bycatch of seabirds from a range of commercial fisheries, known to be among most significant global threats to seabirds (Anderson et al. 2011 Croxall 2012 ydelis et al. 2013), has also drawn attention in the UK (Bradbury et al. 2017). Measures to reduce bycatch in the North, Irish and Baltic Seas, which contain a significant proportion of the worlds wind farms (Jameson et al. 2019), may thus be valuable as compensation for windfarm losses.;Predator control is of huge importance in seabird conservation, from highprofile eradications of introduced and invasive rodents from entire islands (e.g. Martin 2015) to more mundane control of native predators at nature reserves (see examples in Cabot  Nisbet 2013). In addition, where predators are also birds of conservation interest, diversionary feeding may be successful in reducing losses