In terms of potential interactions between marine mammals and wind farms, two groups have been considered thus far small cetaceans and pinnipeds. This chapter will focus on monitoring methods suitable for these groups. The aim of monitoring the abundance, distribution and behaviour of small cetaceans and pinnipeds in relation to windfarm developments is to detect changes over time and to relate any perceived change to natural variation, conservation action or anthropogenic activities. When the first wind farms were installed, only discrete areas were affected, and at that time, it was thought unlikely that entire populations of typically wideranging species would be affected. As such, initial studies focused on the individuals that inhabited the waters in close proximity to the development. However, there are some cases where the potential impact from windfarm development can cover entire subpopulations of small cetaceans, for example the Moray Firth Bottlenose Dolphin Tursiops truncatus in Scotland and the Eastern Taiwan Strait Humpback Dolphin Sousa chinensis in Taiwan. As wind farms proliferate throughout European waters, larger swathes of both coastal and offshore areas are being developed. Since development is proposed to increase rapidly throughout the next decade, there is a growing concern that the cumulative impacts of multiple and concurrent windfarm development could be significant. There is emerging literature that indicates that windfarms may already be having ecosystemscale effects (Perrow 2019) such as the potential for shifting primary productivity regimes in the southern North Sea (Slavik et al. 2018). Globally, as new wind farm markets develop elsewhere, more and more species could be affected and the effect on oceanic ecosystems may be profound albeit not necessarily in a negative way, especially in the context of oceanscale changes initiated by global climate change.; Preconstruction to establish a baseline of the species and populations present to later investigate the effect of construction and operational phases. These data can also assist in establishing the status of the species present, including whether they are also subject to other threats and therefore may be vulnerable. There are also a number of preconstruction activities that could affect the presence of marine mammals, such as an increased presence of vessels, sonar surveys to measure detailed bathymetry and sediment types, surveys for unexploded ordnance and, if located, detonation of such ordnance.  Construction to monitor the direct effect of multiple and concurrent construction activities including piling, installation of substation platform(s) and subsea cabling, and the effectiveness of mitigation measures. During this phase, monitoring is usually focused on noisy piledriving activity, as this has the potential to harm all marine mammal species. In addition, scour protection, typically in the form of rock material, is generally installed to inhibit sediment loss from water movement around the base of windfarm monopiles, thus also modifying the substrate.  Operation to establish whether any displaced marine mammals have returned to the area, which may include either the original animals or resettlement by new animals, and to investigate the longterm effects of the presence of wind farms on marine mammal habitat use. Effects may be positive as well as negative. For example, through the reef effect, wind farms change the abundance and distribution of many invertebrate and fish species (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019), which can attract apex predators such as seals to wind farms (Russell et al. 2014 Nehls et al. 2019). Monitoring both during and after wind