Decoy structures could, however, also attract birds to the general area of the turbines, or encourage them to linger, thereby increasing densities in the vicinity of an OWF and, accordingly, therisk of collision (Curry  Kerlinger 2000 Smallwood  Karas 2009). In theory, this would also increase the footprint of the wind farm to be considered in impact assessment. Alternatively, structures introduced some distance away from the wind farm in areas of lower risk, but within range of the birds, may be the best solution to reduce the density of birds close to the wind farm. To date, such ideas have not been specifically implemented at any wind farm.;In principle, auditory deterrents such as loud noises, alarm calls or other complex calls could be broadcast from windfarm structures to scare birds away from the wind farm or individual turbines, thereby reducing collision risk. However, Dooling (2002) suggested that the use of acoustic deterrents may be problematic for two reasons (1) birds may habituate and (2) any broadcast sounds will also be audible to humans because birds have a narrower range of hearing than humans. Habituation may be avoided at least in part by only using acoustic deterrents at specific times, such as during periods of bad weather or fog when turbines may be less visible to approaching birds. In relation to the use of bird distress signals, Bridges et al. (2004) found that these were largely ineffective when used in isolation, but could elicit evacuation of a site when coupled with a visual cue.;Despite the feasibility and relatively low cost of auditory deterrents, Cook et al. (2011) suggested that they were unlikely to prove effective. Nevertheless, this does not discount their successful use in some situations in a similar way to acoustic harassment devices such as pingers and seal scarers to discourage marine mammals from construction zones (Nehls et al. 2019 Thomsen  Verfu, Chapter 7). Birds would, however, need to be discouraged over the longer term, which again introduces the issue of habituation by regularly occurring individuals, even where use is restricted to specific periods.;Various forms of lighting (see Reducing displacement and attraction,above),such as strobes and lasers, have good potential as bird deterrents. For example, Gilsdorf et al. (2002) found harassment with lasers to be effective for dispersing Great