 Preconstruction to establish a baseline of the species and populations present to later investigate the effect of construction and operational phases. These data can also assist in establishing the status of the species present, including whether they are also subject to other threats and therefore may be vulnerable. There are also a number of preconstruction activities that could affect the presence of marine mammals, such as an increased presence of vessels, sonar surveys to measure detailed bathymetry and sediment types, surveys for unexploded ordnance and, if located, detonation of such ordnance.  Construction to monitor the direct effect of multiple and concurrent construction activities including piling, installation of substation platform(s) and subsea cabling, and the effectiveness of mitigation measures. During this phase, monitoring is usually focused on noisy piledriving activity, as this has the potential to harm all marine mammal species. In addition, scour protection, typically in the form of rock material, is generally installed to inhibit sediment loss from water movement around the base of windfarm monopiles, thus also modifying the substrate.  Operation to establish whether any displaced marine mammals have returned to the area, which may include either the original animals or resettlement by new animals, and to investigate the longterm effects of the presence of wind farms on marine mammal habitat use. Effects may be positive as well as negative. For example, through the reef effect, wind farms change the abundance and distribution of many invertebrate and fish species (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019), which can attract apex predators such as seals to wind farms (Russell et al. 2014 Nehls et al. 2019). Monitoring both during and after windfarm construction also allows for predictions made in Environmental Impact Assessments to be tested. These data can then be used as the evidence base for future windfarm developments, in addition to providing documentation of regulatory compliance.  Decommissioning to investigate the direct impacts of decommissioning activities on the population. This can also be considered an impact phase, in the same manner as construction, and may necessitate further baseline and impact studies.;This chapter provides an overview of the monitoring techniques that have been most commonly used to monitor marine mammal abundance, distribution and behaviour at windfarm developments. These include linetransect surveys aboard vessels and aircraft, individual tracking via telemetry and acoustic monitoring. These are standard methods that have been applied for the past few decades to study marine mammals. The information on these methods is based on established reference books, peerreviewed literature, publicly available reports, and the expertise and experiences of the authors. The intention of this chapter is to describe the key methods available to monitor marine mammals and to discuss the advantages and limitations of each method (Table 2.1). The review is not exhaustive, and it is hoped that the description provided of both key methods and emerging approaches will guide the reader to more detailed studies.