As well as being liberally decorated with tables, figures and especially photographs, which are reproduced in colour courtesy of sponsorship by Vattenfall, most chapters also contain Boxes. These were designed to be provide important examples of a particular point or case or suffice as an allround exemplar and thus stand alone from the text. In a few cases, these have been written by aninvited author(s) on the principle that it is better to see the words from the hands of those involved rather than paraphrase published studies. My sincere thanks go to all 26 chapter authors and further 21 box authors (excluding myself in both cases) for their contributions. I take any deficiencies in the scope and content in this and its sister volume to be my responsibility, particularly as both closely align to my original vision, and many authors have patiently tolerated and incorporated my sometimes extensive editorial changes to initial outlines and draft manuscripts.;Finally, it needs to be stated that with a current epicentre in northwestern Europe in the North and Baltic Seas, the coverage of this book could not exactly be global. However, as the offshore wind industry develops at almost breakneck speed in a great range of countries, I hope the information and experiences gleaned from the pages of this book can be applied in a global context with the proviso that applying any lessons learned to marine systems elsewhere on the planet would need to be accompanied by specific research to account for any inevitable differences in ecological structure and functioning of those systems. Hopefully, this book is a further step towards the sustainable development of wind farms and the ultimate goal of a winwin1 scenario for renewable energy and wildlife.;Martin R. Perrow ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd. 21 June 2019;1 Kiesecker, J.M., Evans, J.S., Fargione, J., Doherty, K., Foresman, K.R., Kunz, T.H., Naugle, D., Nibbelink, N.P.  Niemuth, N.D. (2011) Winwin for wind and wildlife a vision to facilitate sustainable development. PLoS ONE 6 e17566.