The metaanalysis by Bodey et al. (2018) indicates that tags exceeding 1 of bird body mass may already negatively affect bird survival and reproduction. Besides the risks associated with excess load, the tag attachment mode may also have an impact on bird survival. Herein, the use of harnesses, which is the most frequently applied method, significantly increased bird mortality (Bodey et al. 2018). Furthermore, inappropriate placement of reasonably weighted devices on animal bodies may have detrimental consequences such as excessive energy expenditure from modified flight patterns, as in Northern Gannet Morus bassanus (Vandenabeele et al. 2014). In addition, target positioning accuracyand frequency need to be high enough to assess individual avoidance behaviour. Detection of avoidance of entire wind farms demands less accurate positioning, over tens of metres, than detection of avoidance of individual turbines at less than 5 m, or a location relative to the rotorswept area.;Automated wildlife tracking systems based on radiotelemetry are potentially useful for detecting windfarm effects on the activities of individual small birds and bats. Receiving accurate and precise positions and flight bearings is, however, a logistical challenge with respect to configuration and spacing of receiver stations as well as computational power to analyse the collected data (Smolinsky et al. 2013 Mitchell et al. 2015 Taylor et al. 2017). Given a high vantage point of an antenna, the approximate position of radiotagged birds and bats may be detected within a range of up to several kilometres (Burger  Shaffer 2008 Taylor et al. 2017). One example is the rapidly growing groundbased automated wildlifetracking system Motus, which uses radio receivers and coded tags weighing between 0.29 and 2.6 g (Box 6.2) (Taylor et al. 2017 Lotek Wireless Inc. 2018 McKinnon  Love 2018). The maximum accuracy of positioning of tagged animals within the Motus network is ca. 1 km, which is sufficient for describing migratory flyways and corridors at larger than local scales (Taylor et al. 2017). Motus is, however, not eligible for assessing post construction collision risk at micro and mesoscale levels. By installing additional arrays of groundbased automated receiver stations for VHF radio signals with multiple antennae on or near wind turbines, flight paths of animals weighing less than 10 g, including many migratory birds, could be traced with higher resolution in time and space (Taylor et al. 2011 Smolinsky et al. 2013 Sjberg et al. 2015). Installing such arrays of receivers at a more regional scale and tagging significant samples of birds or bats seems to be a very promising approach to track residence times as well as timing, direction, speed and types of movements of animals as small as insects (Taylor et al. 2017). As such, initiatives like Motus will most probably enable the assessment of animal interactions with windenergy facilities at the level of wind farms, for example in documenting macroavoidance.