The most obvious measure to reduce windfarm construction noiseis applying less energy to the hydraulic hammers that are used for impact piledriving. Measurements during windfarm construction have shown that cutting the piling energy by half leads to a noise reduction of 23 dB (Bellmann 2014 Gndert et al. 2014). The soft start procedure is important in this context (see Receiver mitigation, below). However, there are limitations in the use of a reduction of piling energy, as, for example, a certain level is required for effective pile penetration into the seabed. The minimum energy required varies with different soil properties. Moreover, at lower energy levels, the duration of a piling event will be extended, and a higher number of strikes will be needed to install the pile (e.g. Koschinski  Ldemann 2013). It needs to be considered that there is a common understanding that physiological effects are related to the dose of exposure, which includes the duration of impact and the number of strikes for impulsive sounds (Southall et al. 2007 NMFS 2016). Accordingly, the received acoustic dose may not be much different between lowenergy, highfrequency piling and high energy, lowfrequency piling.;The longer the contact time between hammer and pile, the lower the developing noise, particularly the peak sound pressure levels (Lp,0pk). Thus, any measure prolonging the piling impulse and thereby altering the shape of the produced sound wave is desirable. In conventional impact piledriving, a dynamic layer or piling cushion between the hydraulic hammer and the pile can be inserted. As Elmer et al. (2007a) have determined by model calculations, a doubled impulse length at constant piling energy reduces the Lp,0pk by about 9 dB. Measurements during the installation of a 3.2 m diameter monopile for the FINO 2 research platform, using a steel rope as a piling cushion, verified this theoretically derived value (Elmer et al. 2007b). Impulse prolongation can, however, negatively affect pile drivability, especially when combined with higher seabed resistances. Hence, offshore engineering companies have not yet employed this method. Practical experience is still limited to some research and demonstration projects (e.g. Rustemeier et al. 2012).