With respect to any negative effects, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) adopted in many countries should, in theory, reduce any impacts to an acceptable level, particularly as this should also incorporate any mitigation required. Although a wide range of monitoring and research studies have been undertaken, only a small body of that work appears to be represented in the peerreviewed literature. The latter is burgeoning, however, concomitant with the interest in the interactions between wind energy and wildlife as expressed by the continuing Conference on Wind Energy and Wildlife Impacts (CWW) series of international conferences on the topic. A total of 342 participants from 29 countries attended CWW 2017 in Estoril, maintaining similar numbers on both counts to that achieved at CWW 2015 in Berlin. Let us hope that CWW 2019 in Stirling (Scotland) has a similar audience. Recent considerable interest within individual countries suggests this should be the case. For example, the Wind Energy and Wildlife seminar (Eolien et biodiversit) including both onshore andoffshore wind, attracted over 400 participants to Artiguesprs Bordeaux, France on 2122 November 2017.;Even with specific knowledge of the literature as well as participation in meetings, I reached the conclusion (some time ago now) that there was a clear need for a coherent overarching review of potential and actual effects of wind farms and, perhaps even more importantly, how impacts could be successfully avoided or mitigated. Understanding the tools available to conduct meaningful research is also clearly fundamental to any research undertaken. A meeting with Nigel Massen of Pelagic Publishing in late 2012 at the Chartered Institute of Ecology  Environmental Management Renewable Energy and Biodiversity Impacts conference in Cardiff, UK crystallised the notion of a current treatise and the opportunity to bring it to reality. Even then, the project could not have been undertaken without the significant financial support of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd. expressed as my time.;At the outset of the project I did not imagine the original concept (one volume for each of the onshore and offshore disciplines) would morph into a fourvolume series with onshore and offshore each having a volume dedicated to (i) documenting current knowledge of the effects  the conflicts with wildlife and (ii) providing a stateofthescience guide to the available tools for monitoring and assessment and the means of avoiding, minimising and mitigating potential impacts  the solutions. I also did not imagine that the gestation time to produce the volumes would be nearly seven years, or that the offshore volumes would run two years behind the onshore volumes. The offshore industry has developed rapidly in the last few years and this meant many potential authors were swamped by their workloads within various roles within the industry. Perhaps inevitably, several authors fell by the wayside, which caused delays and some stop and start in the process as replacements were found. However, I believe this has meant that the books have ultimately benefited by being able to document the rapid progress that has occurred in the last few years and by having a particularly active team of authors at the top of their game.