well a conducted study covers the risk of not detecting an actual effect (change) due to having too few replicates. In biological and ecological science, it is standard to consider P0.05 as the threshold for significant results. This means that it has to be at least 95 certain that an effect indicated in a study reflects an actual effect. Since biological data are variable in nature and many marine organisms are particularly variable in abundance, many replicates are typically needed to detect an effect. If there is an effect that is smaller than can be detected by the number of sampled replicates, due to natural variation, the conclusion of the study will still be that no effect was found. Wrongly, this conclusion is often interpreted as there was no effect. In order to draw the conclusion that effects are not likely, the statistical power needs to be high. Typically, the statistical power should be 0.8 for a significant change, meaning that the study has an 80 chance of detecting an effect size of interest (typically 2550 change) (Antcliffe 1999). The consequence of the low statistical power in many monitoring programmes is that even if many topics have been studied and few effects have been established, it is not possible to conclude that the studies demonstrate a lack of effect. The possible effects may just be smaller than the applied monitoring efforts are designed to detect. The statistical power may, in some cases, not be presented in the monitoring reports, but it appears likely that only a few of the hitherto presented monitoring studies on the effects of wind power on benthic communities have a statistical power close to the conventional level of 0.8 (Lindeboom et al. 2011 Enhus et al. 2017). To move the field forward and make statistically rigorous conclusions on nonsignificant effects, monitoring programmes should focus on a few questions and perhaps key indicator species that are likely to be sensitive to change (Box 1.2), and apply a high sampling rate to resolve them with high statistical power. An example of high statistical power, but showing no significant effect, can be found in the quantitative experiment of Langhamer et al. (2016), capturing, marking and recapturing Common Shore Crab Carcinus maenas at the Lillgrund OWF. About 4,000 crabs were marked and monitored, but a very low recapture rate was observed. Furthermore, no windfarm effects, either positive or negative, could be shown on the distribution of sex or colour morphs or bodycondition of the crabs, in comparison to nearby reference areas.;When selecting among sampling methods, it is important to strive for minimising variation in data and to make sure that the method is feasible for quantitative data collection under harsh offshore conditions. A good example of targeted methodology is provided by the study on Viviparous Eelpout Zoarces viviparus at Lillgrund OWF (Box 1.2).;About 4 years after the installation of the Lillgrund offshore wind farm (OWF) in Sweden (Figure 1.1), a study on local populations of Viviparous Eelpout Zoarces viviparus was initiated, comparing them with a similar reference site (Langhamer et al. 2018). Eelpout is a benthic rather stationary species that has been used as a key indicator organism in the Baltic and North Seas for monitoring anthropogenic effects. Since the fish is an ovoviviparous species, reproductive success and fry development can be linked to each individual pregnant female, including their health status (Figure 1.2). During field sessions in autumn 2011 and 2012, Viviparous Eelpout was captured with two or three linked and baited double fyke nets at ten randomised locations in the Lillgrund OWF, and at a natural reference site 8 km south of Lillgrund, deployed from a small fishing vessel (Figure 1.3). Thus, fyke nets were set at 40 60 stations on one day and collected and emptied on the next day.