Efforts have also been made to model specific cumulative effects based on forecasts of future offshore wind developments. One such study focused on the regional ecosystemscale effect of the increased populations of filterfeeding mussels growing on wind farm turbine foundations (Slavik et al. 2018). This study concluded that the increase in Blue Mussel populations in a fully developed southern North Sea would have nonnegligible effects upon regional annual primary production of up to a few per cent, and cause larger changes (10) in the phytoplankton stock and thus upon waterclarity during blooms. In other words, at least at short timescales, there could be a significant effect on pelagic primary production and nutrient availability. Models were also used in another project with the aim of understanding the regionalscale dispersal of an invasive species (Coolen et al. 2016). The authors concluded that a native species would not overlap with the invasive species in habitat preference, and that the two species would also be likely be able to coexist after a large expansion of wind farms in the North Sea. Another potential effect of upscaling at a regional scale is the potential increase in primary production caused by upwelling. Based on models, Brostrm (2008) suggested that the reduction in wind speed downwind from a wind farm caused local upwelling (and downwelling). Fineresolution measurements confirm these models, and upwelling can potentially increase primary production in the North Sea by several per cent (Brostrm et al. 2019).;Andersson, M.H.  hman, M.C. (2010) Fish and sessile assemblages associated with windturbine constructions in the Baltic Sea. Marine and Freshwater Research 61 642650.;Andersson, M., Berggren, M., Wilhelmsson, D.  hman, M. (2009) Epibenthic colonization of concrete and steel pilings in a coldtemperate embayment a field experiment. Helgoland Marine Research 63 249260.;Antcliffe, B.L. (1999) Environmental impact assessment and monitoring the role of statistical power analysis. Impact Assessment and Project Appraisal 17 3343.;Bailey, H., Senior, B., Simmons, D., Rusin, J., Picken, G.  Thompson, P.M. (2010) Assessing underwater noise levels during piledriving at an