As a step beyond recording direct vocalisations, the vibrations caused by collisions of larger birds, and potentially, smaller birds and bats with wind turbines, can be recorded acoustically with contact microphones mounted on the rotor blades. While the intrinsic vibrations of the turbine can mask the acoustic signals of collision events (Flowers et al. 2014), the background noise of the turbine can potentially be separated from the sound of collisions, although the intensity and frequency of vibrations will differ in accordance with the mass of the colliding object. Contact microphones can be calibrated by simulated impact events using artificial objects of defined mass that are propelled towards operating wind turbines, such as empty or waterfilled tennis balls that match the masses of small birds and bats (Flowers et al. 2014 Suryan et al. 2016). Algorithms have been developed that perform wavelet analyses that can distinguish vibrations caused by collisions from background noise (Jiang et al. 2011 Suryan et al. 2016).;The methods described thus far, apart from visual daytime and nighttime observations, principally use stationary receivers, which enable detection of flying animals over technically limited scales, from several kilometres to more than 100 km in the case of radar, to less than 100 m in the case of visual and thermal imaging and bioacoustics. Individual tracking follows a different approach by attaching devices on to individuals to trace their movements in space and time (Burger  Shaffer 2008 Exo et al. 2013 McKinnon  Love 2018). Animal tracking gives insight into individual behaviour, including habitat use, migration and responses to environmental cues. The technological development of animal tracking went through three stages. First, animal localisation was realised with radio (or other) beeper transmitters that were fitted to animals. The emitted signals were initially detected with handheld and later also with automated antennae. To improve animal tracking, signals were simultaneously detected with directional antennae deployed at different sites to localise individuals via triangulation. At the second stage, dataloggers were deployed that stored different parameters, such as flight directions and durations,