For better qualitative and quantitative monitoring of biofouling succession and colonisation, settlement panels and scraping may be applied. Here, recruitment and growth, and even settlement of noninvasive species, can be detected and analysed. However, in overall terms, it is important to choose a suitable combination of monitoring methodologies for epifouling in order to obtain a meaningful synthesis of the different epifaunal communities. Studies on epifouling communities have been conducted with the focus on habitat gain, showing a succession of colonisation of local species, higher biomass and diversity on windturbine structures and adjacent boulders (Wilhelmsson  Malm 2008). In the brackish Baltic Sea, Blue Mussel usually dominates offshore wind structures (Dannheim et al. 2019) and its biomass has been shown to exceed that of the surrounding mussel beds by an order of magnitude (Wilhelmsson  Malm 2008 Andersson  hman 2010 Krone et al. 2013) and may have regional effects on the ecosystem (van der Molen et al. 2014). Typically, habitat gain has been associated with positive effects and with habitat improvement (Gutow et al. 2014). Still, negative effects may appear when submerged structures, such as foundations and scour protection, attract invasive and non indigenous species (e.g. Coolen et al. 2016). In monitoring programmes in the North Sea and in the Baltic, some new species for these waters have been found, suggesting that OWFs could be stepping stones to facilitate further spread (Leonhard  Pedersen 2006 Brodin  Andersson 2009 Degraer  Brabant 2009).;Rapid developments in computing and molecular biology have also opened up the use of DNA in biodiversity assessments or identification of specific species, such as invasive species (e.g. Deiner et al. 2017). While more research and development work is required for consistent use in the analysis of community structure using a metabarcoding approach, where a small sample of sediment or water is used to estimate the presence of all species at a site, the detection of specific species is more straightforward. In this application, a speciesspecific molecular essay is used to detect the presence and concentration of a target DNA molecule, such as from an invasive species, in a water sample using the droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (Nathan et al. 2014).