The relatively slow speed of boats means that it is not possible to cover the large territory that it is possible to survey from aircraftin a short period of time. Conversely, the longer time spent at sea during boatbased surveys can detect potential diurnal (e.g. Schwemmer  Garthe 2005) and tidal (e.g. Embling et al. 2012) patterns in the presence of birds that cannot be revealed by the rapid snapshot character of aerial surveys. Of course, it is possible to adapt aerial surveys for this purpose by increasing the frequency of aerial surveys by undertaking multiple flights per day or over a few days, although this may prove to be prohibitively expensive (Vanermen  Stienen 2019). Migration of both seabirds and landbirds may also be better detected by boatbased surveys of longer duration, especially if these are conducted in more challenging weather conditions. The sample sizes of flying birds also tend to be higher for boatbased surveys on account of the flux of birds relative to the speed of the platform.;Perhaps most importantly, with highquality and welltrained surveyors on board it is possible to obtain considerably more data on the behaviours of birds from a boatbased platform than is possible during aerial surveys. Behavioural data can be used to infer the purpose of the birds use of a proposed development site, such as its importance as a foraging area. Vessels may also carry other instrumentation in order to collect contemporaneous habitat data in the form of a number of environmental variables that may explain seabird distribution, including water depth, temperature, salinity, abundance of phytoplankton (expressed as chlorophyll a), measures of tidal mixing (Scott et al. 2010 Embling et al. 2012) and even fish as measured by hydroacoustic sampling (Certain et al. 2011 Krgefsky 2014). This is a step towards ecosystembased research, which is now seen as key to unravelling the true extent of what are now seen to be generally hitherto undescribed, but significant physical and indirect impacts of largescale wind farms upon ecosystem function and thus upon seabirds (Perrow 2019).;The linetransect methods employed for visual aerial surveys for OWFs were first introduced for characterisation of seabird communities around the first proposed wind farms in Danish and Swedish waters (e.g. Kahlert et al. 2000). These methods were then