Severe sound levels are also removed by the use of alternatives to piling, including gravitybase foundations (GBF), such as those used at Thornton Bank OWF (Peire et al. 2009), and suction caissons (Houlsby et al. 2005). Floating bases also remove the requirement for a physical attachment of the actual turbine structure to the seabed, but require anchor attachments with associated design considerations that generate some noise. However, to date, financial, engineering and technological constraints have limited the use of GBF and other alternatives. According to WindEurope (2018), by the end of 2017, 87 of the substructures installed in European waters, including 4,149 grid connected turbines, had used monopiles, 9 had used using tripods and tripiles, and only 2 had used GBFs (with other technologyincluding the first floating structures comprising the rest). Despite piling having accounted for the vast majority of the construction effort applied to date, there is almost no documented evidence of significant impacts on birds, with the exception of Perrow et al. (2011). This may in part be due to the short timescales involved in piling disturbance, quick recovery time or a lack of monitoring at appropriate scales to detect the impacts associated with construction, or a combination thereof.;Selecting specific construction windows may also provide a good method for minimising the impacts of construction on sensitive species. However, this is only effective for species that use the project area in a predictable manner, such as breeding birds tied to a nearby colony or perhaps those passing through in welldefined migration periods. Such an approach may be complicated by limited overlap in the seasonal distribution of important species using a site. Some less sensitive birds, especially local birds using the site regularly, may also habituate to the construction process, whereas highly sensitive or migratory species may not. The passage of migratory species once or twice a year may also typically be of little consequence. In general, restrictions on the timing of construction are likely to be costly for the developer and would need to be robustly justified on a casebycase basis and supported with detailed behavioural information.;Phased development may also reduce the risk of acute impacts on birds and would provide the opportunity to monitor for any negative effects, which could then be addressed before considering further expansion (Gartman et al. 2016b). In reality, this has already happened to some degree, with extensions to many OWFs having been added or in planning. In such cases, any associated monitoring must provide sufficient information to validate impact assessments and inform the decisionmaking process.