Tracking and telemetry are routinely used in ecological studies of birds. The attachment of telemetry devices (or tags) to individuals, can, at its simplest level, record the spatial movement of a species of interest, which has numerous applications in the assessment of interactions of marine birds and migrant waterbirds with offshore wind farms. The initial application of telemetry in Europe has expanded to include other countries where developments are being proposed. Telemetry is useful in (1) scoping species and sites that could be affected by developments throughout the year at different scales, (2) identifying the exposure of species to particular effects of wind farms prior to construction, and (3) quantifying impacts and monitoring behaviour once the wind farm has been constructed. To scope species and protected sites, breeding season foraging range reviews and direct tracking information have been used to identify potential or realised connectivity between protected sites and wind farms, to quantify intensity of habitat use and potential overlap with wind farms, and to assess the scale at which wind farms may have bearing on species populations. Telemetry has also been used to quantify the potential effects of displacement or avoidance, collision risk and barrier effects associated with constructed wind farms, thereby helping to validate assessment predictions. Finescale movements around individual wind turbines are now beingrevealed. Information from positional telemetry can be supplemented with additional sensors, such as those that record diving patterns or timeactivity, which can help to identify behaviour and refine understanding of habitat use. The use of telemetry will undoubtedly increase in the future, facilitated by continuing technological developments that will allow new species to be tracked over longer periods, and advancements in analytical techniques within an increasingly diverse monitoring toolkit, thus providing new solutions to existing problems.;The marine environment is coming under increasing pressure from human activities such as shipping, oil and gas, and offshore renewable energy developments (Halpern et al. 2008 Korpinen  Andersen 2016). In relation to wind farms, the birds present in the marine environment (Paleczny et al. 2015), including both seabirds and terrestrial or coastal birds migrating or moving over the surface of the sea (see the definition of marine birds in Scope, below), are at risk of a range of impacts, including through direct collision (King 2019), barrier effects and displacement (Vanermen  Stienen 2019), with seabirds also subject to potential indirect and ecosystem effects, particularly through their prey (Perrow 2019). The position of a bird through time can yield valuable information on proximity or overlap with anthropogenic factors, including wind farms (Hart  Hyrenbach 2009 Waggit  Scott 2014 Cleasby et al. 2015 Thaxter et al. 2018a). While traditional survey methods using boats or aircraft (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) remain crucial in determining baseline distribution and abundance in the area of interest for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of wind farms, such surveys cannot generally track birds, which requires a sequence of positional data to be gathered (tracking). This is the basic remit of telemetry, as derived from the Greek words tele, meaning far, and metros, meaning measurement. Although the resulting definition of remote measurement of data can therefore cover a range of survey platforms, such as aerial surveys using high definition imagery (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) as well as radar