The first stage when planning OWF developments should be strategic investigations on a larger scale in order to identify areas of different sensitivity. The European Strategic Environmental Assessment Directive (Directive 200142EC) provides the legal framework, but member states have applied this in different ways, reflecting their attitudes towards offshore wind and other factors (e.g. Albrecht 2007 DECC 2016). Particularly for mobile and often widely distributed seabirds, largescale strategic surveys may provide highly relevant information to shape later EIA studies and to select or deselect areas for further planning. SEAs often do not include dedicated surveys but rely on available information from the literature. In this respect, the approach taken in the UK was a positive exception. During the early planning stages, largescale aerial seabird surveys were conducted (Department of Business Energy and Regulatory Reform (BERR), unpublished report 2007) which, along with other sources of information, identified areas where conflicts might exist. This approach has been developed further using modelling techniques (Bradbury et al. 2014 Certain et al. 2015) (see Figure 3.1, representing Bradbury et al. 2014) and thus forms an important basis for developing future offshore wind energy capacity. The extent to which dedicated surveys are required depends on the information already available, the scope of intended OWF developments and on the specific situation of the marine waters where the development may take place. Largescale strategic assessments also offer the most suitable base to account forcumulative impacts stemming from other activities, such as oil and gas installations, dredging or shipping, which are often difficult to include on the smaller spatial scale of project assessments.;Figure 3.1 Extent of existing seabird survey data around England (a) European Seabirds at Sea (ESAS) boatbased data in summer (April to September) 19792011 (b) ESAS boatbased data in winter 19792011 (c) WWT Consulting aerial survey data in summer 20012011 and (d) WWT Consulting aerial survey data in winter 20012011. (Bradbury et al. 2014)