APEM has employed a single mediumformat camera system with a standard lens that is pointed directly downwards from the camera hatch in a Vulcanair P68 or BrittenNorman Islander Mk II. The total image width for this system is approximately 400 m if flown from an altitude of 400 m, achieving an image resolution of 3 cm GSD (Mendel et al. 2018). Typically, these surveys are flown using a striptransect design or as a plotbased survey design. The camera system uses forwardmotion compensation to reduce imageblur (Busch et al. 2014).;Aarhus University uses a system based on one developed originally by the Natural Environmental Research Institute (NERI) in Denmark. Their system uses a Vexcel Ultracam system which, when flown at an altitude of 470 m and image resolution of 3 cm GSD, obtains an image dimension of 520340 m (Groom et al. 2013). Like the DAISI system, an image is recorded along a strip transect such that at least 50 overlap between consecutive images is obtained (Groom et al. 2013).;All three systems use automated methods for detecting objects. The system used by DAISI and Blom is the same Trimble Envision Objectbased Image Analysis platform developed at Aarhus University to locate animals in the images using a process of segmentation and then labelling objects in the form of polygons. A single rule set is used for identifying these images that is knowledge based and adaptive but does not require training typical of most artificial intelligence systems. Some 10 or occasionally 20 of all images are selected for manual QA, requiring at least 90 agreement between the automated and manual detection systems. A manual system is used for identification of objects to the lowest taxon order possible (Groom et al. 2013). The system employed by APEM uses a manual system of screening for candidate animals 10 of blank images and 100 of all images are subjected to independent QA, requiring that 90 agreement is obtained. Bespoke software is used that automates recognition of species, measures the length and wingspan of objects as well as the direction of travel, and estimates the flight height of birds based on their size and compared to known sizes for a given species (Johnston  Cook 2016). This software supports manual identification of species, and 10 of these objects undergo external QA, again requiring 90 agreement between both parties (Busch et al. 2014).;Sun glare or glint is more of an issue for digital stills than for video aerial surveys, because all operators use cameras in plan view, and thus they cannot be directed away from the sun, as is the case for angled cameras. Severe sun glare can cause significant problems with object detection and reduce the effective coverage of the survey. The DAISI and Aarhus University systems both use a