This approach has been further developed in the environmental working group of the Support Group on Maritime Spatial Planning (SG1), currently chaired by the Netherlands, which was established based on the political declaration on energy cooperation between the North Sea countries (European Commission 2016). The members conduct a Common Environmental Assessment Framework (CEAF), including a common knowledge basis, especially on cause effect relations of offshore wind, an agreement on common species and habitats affected by windfarm development, and on a common approach to how to assess crossborder cumulative effects. CEAF will be tested in SEANSE (Rijkswaterstaat Sea and Delta 2018) for different stages of wind energy development. In three case studies, the cumulative effects of existing and planned OWFs in the North Sea for the years 2023, 2030 and 2030 onwards will be assessed for the most sensitive marine species, namely Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena (Figure 9.7), divers Gavia spp. (Figure 9.2), and seabirds. The assessment of future largescale developments is based on observed effects from OWF monitoring, such as habitat use anddisplacement effects (Nehls et al. 2019 Vanermen amp Stienen 2019), which serve as input parameters for population and collision risk models (Cook amp Masden, Chapter 5). Within SEANSE, cumulative effects are considered not only in their spatial but also in their temporal extent, which is a promising approach for long planning horizons.;Figure 9.7 Surfacing Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena a small cetacean sensitive to windfarm development, specifically pile driving during construction, that has led to the adoption of a noisemitigation strategy to avoid populationlevel disturbance in the German part of the North Sea. (skeezePixabay.com 752591);While the importance of assessing cumulative effects is widely accepted, actual approaches to handle the complex linkages and interactions in SEAs remain limited. A CEAF should eventually incorporate the ecosystembased approach and principles of environmental risk assessments (Judd et al. 2015 Stelzenmller et al. 2018).