The same assumptions relating to linetransect theory for boat based surveys (see Boatbased survey methods above, and Box 3.3) also apply to visual aerial surveys. It is likely that the speed of survey prevents positive responsive behaviour by seabirds, but it remains open to question whether negative responsive behaviour occurs in visual surveys for some species. Comparisons between visual and digital aerial survey methods both in the UK (Buckland et al. 2012) and Germany (Box 3.5) reported much higher abundance of Common Scoter Melanitta nigra for digital aerial methods than for equivalent visual aerial methods. What is not clear is whether thedifferences reported are attributable to lower detection rates, survey error or responsive behaviour. The assumption most likely to be violated is that all birds on the transect line are detected (perception bias). Detection of birds by visual methods may be reduced if weather conditions are poor, such as higher wind speeds or if carried out with strong sun glare obscuring the transect line on one side or even both sides of the aircraft. It would be very valuable to employ doubleplatform methods to determine detection probability on the transect line, as recommended by Camphuysen et al. (2004). Unfortunately, no such surveys are known to have taken place around OWFs.;Because a large number of aerial observer surveys have already been conducted to inform offshore windfarm planning processes, it is of great interest to compare the results with new digital techniques. A direct comparison using fully matching double surveys is not possible because, owing to different demands on flight height, observers and cameras cannot be placed in the same plane. Wei et al. (2016) made the first comparison of an observer survey, followed about 30 minutes later by a digital video survey using the HiDef system, in the German Bight, north of the island of Helgoland. Sighting rates for all species were two to four times higher for the digital video technique and differences were especially striking for Common Scoter Melanitta nigra (Figure 3.11). On an effective transect length of 324 km, 2,203 scoters were counted by observers, whereas 15,341 scoters were later detected on the video footage. Both methods provided largely similar distributions of scoter in the survey area, but calculated densities were about 50 higher for the digital video method (Figure 3.12). The large difference between methods is probably caused by the disturbance of Common Scoter by the lowflying observer plane, which usually flushes most Common Scoters on