 First, the accuracy in the quantification of avoidanceattraction rates needs to be raised, as small changes alter CRM output tremendously (Chamberlain et al. 2006 Cook  Masden, Chapter 5). In terms of macroavoidance, tracking with radiotags seems to be a practical solution for small avifauna, including landbirds and waterbirds as well as migratory bats. For most seabird species, GPS tags with high spatiotemporal resolution can be used in combination with other remotesensing technology, such as radar, video or thermal imaging. In terms of microavoidance, the turbine structure, and in particular, the rotorswept area, need to be continuously monitored with stereovisual and infrared or thermal cameras of high optical resolution strategically mounted at the base of each rotor blade (Suryan et al. 2016) or turbine nacelle (Schulz et al. 2014). Additional cameras are needed to record barotraumatic bat (and possibly small bird) fatalities potentially caused in the wake of the turbine outside the rotorswept area.  Secondly, the ability to directly register bird and bat collisions with wind turbines needs improvement because fatality monitoring cannot be carried out offshore to quantify collisions or to validate CRMs. The most appropriate available methodology to achieve thisgoal could involve accelerometers fixed to each turbine blade.  Thirdly, priority should be given to the development of techniques that enable robust identification of bird and bat species, as it has become evident that turbineanimal interactions are highly species specific. This can be achieved using highresolution cameras, but also through recording the calls of bats and birds with microphones fixed to the nacelle or the monopile of a wind turbine. Effort should focus on those species that seem most threatened by collisions with wind turbines, such as nocturnally migrating birds, migrating bats and, perhaps, foraging seabirds.;Each of these three steps needs to be directly associated with date and timestamped observations so that a conditionsbased assessment (including seasonal, daynight and weather conditions) of risk factors can be developed. Care must also be taken regarding the design of impact studies in relation to clearly defined study objectives and intended outputs. Preferably, comparable data should be obtained from surveys before, during and after turbine construction. For example, taking preconstruction measurements of bat activity at ground level while postconstruction measurements are taken at rotorswept altitude is very likely to confound the assessment of activity levels (Lintott et al. 2016). However, practical constraints often preclude comparable sample taking, particularly offshore, which has to be considered in the interpretation of study results.;Multisensor systems that assemble components of the remote sensing technologies described in this chapter provide the best solution to quantify interactions between turbines and birds and bats offshore. Ideally, such systems would be fixed to each individual wind turbine of a wind farm. As a minimal solution, the authors recommend the installation of one multisensor system in each corner as well as in the centre of a wind farm (a total of five systems) to ensure balanced sampling of birds and bats entering the wind farm and inside the wind farm, irrespective of flight direction. However, the diversity of available systems renders comparability among different systems almost impossible. To gain a better understanding of the spatiotemporal variation of the effects of a wind farm and ultimately cumulative impacts of winds farms on the phenology and dynamics of bird and bat populations, coordinated