Tracking technology has at least three major advantages over other remotesensing techniques in the quantification of offshore avian collision risk. First, individual behavioural responses of birds and bats to offshore wind turbines can, theoretically, be recorded at all relevant spatiotemporal scales (Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4), providing modellers with urgently needed information on avoidance rates (Green et al. 2016). Secondly, tracking will enhance the quality of environmental impact assessments during the pre construction period through databased determinations of distance limits of wind farms around, for instance, bird colonies (Perrow et al. 2006 Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4). Thirdly, tagging studies may be relatively inexpensive in the context of an intensive programme of digital aerial or boatbased surveys (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) or an intensive study of bird collision risk using multisensor systems (see MUSE, below Skov et al. 2018). Limitations of using tracking devices involve bird capture and tag mounting, which may impose stresses on birds, as may nonergonomically shaped or placed harnesses and the extra weight imposed by tags (Barron et al. 2010 Exo et al. 2013 Vandenabeele et al. 2014). Even though technology continues to advance with smaller and lighter devices enabling a greater range of birds to be tagged, some species may still respond unfavourably to tagging (Thaxter et al. 2016). Finally, tags that archive data, as opposed to those able to transmit data, require the recapture of tagged individuals, which restricts their use to animals with high site fidelity and return rate (Exo et al. 2013).;The most straightforward method for quantifying wind turbine induced fatalities of birds or bats would be searching for carcasses beneath turbines, typically known as fatality monitoring (Huso et al. 2017). This approach is, with some limitations, applicable onshore but is unfeasible offshore because carcasses retrieval is virtually impossible at sea. Hppop et al. (2016), for instance, estimated that up to 90 of carcasses are likely to be missed at an offshore research platform with an 80 m high lattice tower, such as FINO 1. In contrast to many types of wind turbines, FINO 1 is equipped with a 256 m2 platform 20 m a.s.l., on which Aumller et al. (2015) determined the average retention time of bird carcasses to be 27 days. Nevertheless, the ratio of carcass catchment area to collision relevant area is much larger for research platforms such as FINO 1 than for wind turbines. The large size of the rotor blades in combination with higher wind speeds at sea further complicates the retrieval of carcasses as they scatter over a larger area than on land. Hence, it seems quite unlikely that carcass searches around offshore wind turbines recapture birds and bats injured or killed by the turbine. Moreover, as the time of collision is unknown, it is impossible to reconstruct the environmental conditions that prevailed at the time of collision (KornerNievergelt et al. 2013 Hppop et al. 2016). Such knowledge, for instance on weather conditions, would provide hints on possible processes underlying collision events. The use of floating barriers or nets, which may prevent fatal casualties from being lost, seems likely to be constrained by the technical issues of securing these structures