Given the complexities and variations in the movements of awide spectrum of marine birds, the extent of windfarm interactions is unlikely to be a constant that can be ascertained through monitoring in a single given year, or through a shortscale study within a year. An appreciation of annual variation in distribution of species from atsea surveys is inherent within impact assessments (Camphuysen et al. 2004). Similar congruency should be applied to telemetry methods to allow suitable appraisal of the interactions between marine birds and wind farms.;Impact assessment often requires consideration of the consequences of effects at a number of spatial scales, ranging from protected sites, through suites of protected sites, to larger scales such as national and biogeographic populations (see Figure 4.2). More recent approaches have sought to identify a biologically defined minimum population scale (BDMPS) to serve as a reference population to judge specific effects of developments (e.g. Forewind 2014). Tracking is particularly useful to identify which populations may be affected by a development and over what geographic scale. For example, the relative use of key areas such as the North Sea by birds from different populations is not well known, with even less known about the influx and outflux of particular populations to and from these key areas.;A good example where telemetry has tackled this issue is the study by Frederiksen et al. (2012) that used geolocators to examine the nonbreeding season movements of 236 Blacklegged Kittiwakes from 19 different colonies. The study identified the nonbreeding areas, in particular large marine ecosystems (LMEs) thereby allowing the size and composition of nonbreeding populations in each area to be estimated through proportional area use (Frederiksen et al. 2012). It was estimated that 40 of the North Sea LME Blacklegged Kittiwake population present in December 2009 originated from the Barents Sea LME, whereas 18 of the breeding North Sea population remained in the North Sea over the winter (Frederiksen et al. 2012). Such information allows an assessment of the connectivity between birds wintering in particular areas and different source breeding populations (or colonies), and