The results outlined support the notion that the best solution to deliver site capacity at the lowest risk possible for seabirds is to use the largest and thus fewest turbines possible, whilst making sure that the blades do not sweep critical flight heights of important species. Ultimately, the choices involved will, however, depend on the turbine specifications availableand any engineering and financial constraints regarding how the site can be constructed.;Impacts during construction may affect birds either directly through disturbance by associated vessels or installation works, or indirectly through potential effects upon prey such as pilingrelated displacement (Perrow et al. 2011). The direct disturbance by vessels may be minimised by limiting the numbers and size of vessels and by careful planning of the timing, routes and frequency of vessel movements (see Windfarm design and micrositing,above).;The application of noisemitigation methods during piling largely undertaken to mitigate for impacts on marine mammals (Thomsen  Verfu, Chapter 7) may also help to minimise any indirect impacts on birds by reducing effects on their fish prey. Methods to reduce underwater noise using noisemitigation systems include modifications of the piling hammer, impulse prolongation, and the use of hydrosound dampers, bubble curtains, casings and cofferdams, especially in combination with each other (Nehls et al. 2007 Verfu 2014 Thomsen  Verfu, Chapter 7). Noise mitigation systems have had to be applied at all OWFs in Germany since 2012. In addition, softstart piling procedures are widely undertaken (JNCC 2010).;Severe sound levels are also removed by the use of alternatives to piling, including gravitybase foundations (GBF), such as those used at Thornton Bank OWF (Peire et al. 2009), and suction caissons (Houlsby et al. 2005). Floating bases also remove the requirement for a physical attachment of the actual turbine structure to the seabed, but require anchor attachments with associated design considerations that generate some noise. However, to date, financial, engineering and technological constraints have limited the use of GBF and other alternatives. According to WindEurope (2018), by the end of 2017, 87 of the substructures installed in European waters, including 4,149 grid connected turbines, had used monopiles, 9 had used using tripods and tripiles, and only 2 had used GBFs (with other technology