This comparison indicates substantial differences between observer surveys and digital video surveys. Differences betweensurvey techniques may result from reduced disturbance from digital surveys operating at flight heights above 450 m (1,500 feet), but also from different detection rates, which are likely to differ between species.;A further known bias from visual aerial surveys is one of availability bias, whereby not all animals present in the survey are available for detection (Marsh  Sinclair 1989). Typically, this occurs when diving seabirds are foraging. Availability bias can be corrected using the following formula (Barlow et al. 1988);A further known bias from visual aerial surveys is one of availability bias, whereby not all animals present in the survey are available for detection (Marsh  Sinclair 1989). Typically, this occurs when diving seabirds are foraging. Availability bias can be corrected using the following formula (Barlow et al. 1988)where Pr is the probability of being visible, s is the average time spent below the surface per dive cycle, t is the window of time that the bird is within view and d is the average time spent at the surface per dive cycle. In practice, the length of time that the bird is within view is difficult to calculate in an aerial survey, because this is a function of the distance from the transect line. In practice, availability bias is better treated with perception bias to determine detection rates using doubleplatform methods (e.g. Borchers et al. 2002 Hiby  Lovell 1998).;The main advantage of using aerial surveys is that a large area may be covered in a relatively short space of time. This means that it is possible to obtain a snapshot of seabird distribution over a wide area around the potential development area, which is important in characterisation surveys to provide context to the distribution patterns observed at the development site (see Baseline studies for projectlevel Environmental Impact Assessments, above). Similarly, during postconsent monitoring surveys, it may be difficult to detect changes in seabird distribution patterns around the wind farm unless a sufficiently large buffer area is surveyed (see Postconsent impact monitoring,above). For the most sensitive species, such as Redthroated Diver, this has been measured at 9 km from the wind farm (Petersen et al. 2014 Webb et al. 2017) and at 12 km