Moreover, there should be a strong connection between MPAs and OWFs because (1) MPAs are limited in their ability to counteract consequences of climate change, and (2) OWFs mitigate climate change. This means that in terms of progressing towards the Sustainable Development Goals 13 (Climate Action) and 14 (Life Below Water), potential positive synergies should also be considered (Simard et al. 2016). This is relatively new thinking, but provides an approach that can be used readily within the framework of MSP, which already provides the means of looking at myriad uses together, especially when compatibility matrices are used in the process. Such a tool allows for consideration of compatibility as well as conflicts. As for wildlife impacts, there needs to be much more integrated ecosystembased research (Perrow 2019), whereby ecological functioning and variousspecies and their multiple conservation goals, in relation to the protection afforded by both MPAs and OWFs, are all considered simultaneously. Once there are findings from such research, the challenge will be to bring these to bear on MSP in an effective and useful way.;While around 65 countries have introduced MSP approaches, implementation stages vary substantially. For instance, African countries, including Angola, South Africa and the Seychelles, are pursuing initial stages, while AsianPacific countries, such as China, Vietnam and the Philippines, are implementing plans. Revisions and adaptations to plans were issued or are underway for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and northern European countries, including Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands (UNESCO 2018).;With offshore wind energy operating in more and more markets, and with more ambitious climate protection targets in the EU for example, the planning and commissioning of OWF is likely to become a priority for an increasing number of coastal states in the years to come (Gill et al. 2018 Ehler 2018). The expansion of offshore renewable energy, and wind energy in particular, continues to compete for space with other maritime uses in an already busy seascape (Yates et al. 2018, p. 1).;With this challenge in mind, and as far as guidance and good practice in MSP planning and assessment processes is concerned, the EUfunded Baltic SCOPE Project developed a checklist toolbox for the ecosystem approach in MSP (Baltic SCOPE Project 2017b). The guidance draws on HELCOMVASABs Guidelines for the implementation of the ecosystembased approach in MSP in the Baltic Sea area (HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group 2015), thus addressing key ecosystem approach elements for marine spatial planners and for those who prepare SEAs. These projects provide the backbone for the good practice principles for MSP recommended and future challenges identified by the authors of this chapter, as follows