An understanding of how impacts are allocated across metapopulations is also needed to identify appropriate compensation. However, the apportioning of impacts associated with a specific OWF is problematic, as birds using a site may originate from several different colonies or even regions, especiallywhen incorporating all phenological periods including dispersal and wintering stages as well as the breeding period. In some cases, it may be straightforward to identify a particular population or colony of birds using the development area, for example using tracking technology (see Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4), or at least through apportioning methods based on theoretical foraging range during the breeding season. Where this is not possible, compensation should be directed to areas where measures would be likely to provide the most costeffective results (Furness et al. 2013b).;In broad terms, compensation can be achieved by enhancing bird populations by manipulating limiting biological factors and minimising the impacts of other anthropogenic effects on populations (Marques et al. 2014). This is usually achieved by targeting breeding, foraging and resting areas for the affected species outside the wind farm. In the onshore arena, Marques et al. (2014) list some examples of compensatory measures which could be undertaken to enhance populations, including (1) habitat creation, restoration or enhancement, (2) prey enhancement, (3) predator control, (4) removal of exoticinvasive species, (5) species reintroductions, and (6) supplementary feeding. These are briefly treated in turn in the following paragraphs in relation to the offshore environment.;The extension of protected areas around important seabird colonies into the offshore realm, to encompass foraging grounds (e.g. see Perrow et al. 2015 and other examples therein) is one possible way of enhancing the protection afforded to breeding seabirds and could improve or maintain colony productivity. There are many examples of habitat management and enhancement for seabirds (other than predator control see below), such as those undertaken for Roseate Tern Sterna dougallii in the UK, through vegetation management, the provision of nest boxes on specially constructed terraces, and even the configuration of an island (Blue Circle Island) created from dredge spoil and quarry workings, to make it suitable for breeding terns (Cabot  Nisbet 2013). Habitat alterations are less feasible at sea, although other structures may be added, such as buoys or rafts that could, for example, provide social centres or resting sites between foraging bouts (see Luring birds away from wind farms, above).Specifically, in terms of compensatory