2018). It is also important to consider the effect that any attachment will have on an individuals hydrodynamic profile. The size and configuration of the tag, the attachment method and the attachment site can all result in significant drag, thus influencing both how well the tag remains on the individual and the normal behaviour of the animal (Tudorache et al. 2014). Bulky or poorly located tags may cause injury (Irvine et al. 1982 Chilvers et al. 2001) and may induce higher energetic costs to the individual during normal behaviours. As such, there is potential to cause long term effects on the physiology and health status of a tagged individual (Scott  Chivers 2009 Balmer et al. 2010 Walker et al. 2012 van der Hoop et al. 2014 Gendron et al. 2015). Considerations of the impact on animals have led to the development of singlepin tags and attachment positions that are less likely to be energetically costly while still providing sufficient data (Balmer et al. 2014).;Despite the challenges of attaching telemetry devices, telemetry studies have been used to provide critical information on marine mammal behaviour and distribution in relation to wind farms during both construction and operational phases (e.g. Tougaard et al. 2003 Lindeboom et al. 2011). In particular, the longterm data sets now available for both Grey Seal Halichoerus grypus and Harbour Seal Phoca vitulina have provided researchers with a detailed overview of these species behaviour at sea. Russell et al. (2014) used data from Global Positioning System (GPS) tags to show that Harbour Seals travel to and spend time around wind farms in the Netherlands. Studies on how marine mammals use operating wind farms are limited however, it appears in this case, that the monopiles provide foraging opportunities for the seals. Tagging data have also shown that Harbour Seals avoided a wind farm site during the construction phase (Russell et al. 2016), and the observed tracks of Harbour Seals during pile driving were used to predict sound exposure levels for this species (Hastie et al. 2015). Although telemetry studies can be extremely informative, they have a number of limitations when it comes to windfarm studies. It is difficult to obtain enough samples, meaning that the number of individuals tagged may cover only a small proportion of the actual population, and individual seal behaviour can be highly variable