Radio waves are classified into bands by their length. Bird studies often use either an X band, with a range of wavelengths from 2.5 to 3.75 cm (812 GHz), or an S band with 815 cm (24 GHz) wavelengths. The higher frequency X band typically provides a higher resolution and can detect smaller targets, while the S band has a more extended range and is less affected by rain and fog. A radar device emits either continuous or pulsed electromagnetic radiation waves and receives echoed radiation, of which only a very small quantity of energy is reflected from targets, such as birds, bats and insects, back to the radar system. These radio waves travel at light speed and the time lapse between emission and echo perception is a measure of the distance between the radar device and its target (Eastwood 1967 Bruderer 1997 Kunz et al. 2007 Drake  Reynolds 2012). Reflectivity is dependent on the relative difference in dielectric properties between two media. In the case of bat and bird detection, the difference in electric conductivity between air, a dielectric medium, and water, a conductive medium, in organic tissue causes reflections of radio waves from target bodies. For birds, the maximum detection range of radar is from a few kilometres to about 240 km, depending on antenna characteristics, power of emitted radiation, radar wavelength and target radar crosssection (Desholm et al. 2006 Drake  Reynolds 2012). Detection improves when target size is relatively large compared to the operating wavelength. Using shorter wavelengths (X band 3 cm), however, does not necessarily improve bird and bat detection because atmospheric attenuation increases with decreasing wavelength, and smaller objects, such as rain or insects, begin to blur or clutter radar images as insect contamination. Insuch instances, it is possible to distinguish most bird and bat targets from the background clutter provided wind speed and directions are taken into consideration. Optimal radar wavelengths range between 3 and 10 cm, which generally allows more consistent detection of larger bats and smaller to mediumsized birds (10500 g), such as most passerines and birds up to the size of ducks. Conversely, wavelengths between 10 and 15 cm enhance detection of larger (1,000 g) birds, but may miss smaller individuals (Eastwood 1967 Bruderer 1997 Gauthreaux  Belser 2003).;The development of windenergy utilities and the resulting requirement to quantify the abundance of bats and birds has advanced the application of radar in windfarm studies both onshore and offshore. The longest continuous and still ongoing radarbased monitoring of offshore bird migration has provided extremely valuable insight into offshore bird activity since 2003 (Hppop et al. 2006 Hill et al. 2014). Radar provides several advantages for monitoring the activities of most birds and bats at wind turbines, including farrange detection, fulltime operation, presumed bird imperceptibility to radio waves (Bruderer et al. 1999) and extensive airspace samples.;Three major types of radar systems are distinguished, with each providing different target characteristics (1) Doppler radar systems, which quantify radial velocity of a moving target through detection of shifts in the frequency of reflecting signals, as well as providing distance and direction, (2) true tracking radar, which provides threedimensional information about position, speed, direction and, to some extent, identity of targets based on wingbeat patterns (Bruderer 1997), and (3) marineship radar (Figure 6.5), which typically utilises a rotating Tshaped fanbeam antenna to detect distance and direction of moving targets and programmed software to display their twodimensional trajectories (Desholm et al. 2006). Each of the three radar types provides differing target signatures and thus diverging biological perspectives. Of the three, marine ship radar is comparatively less costly and, hence, most commonly used for ornithological monitoring programmes (Kunz et al. 2007).