Distance sampling protocols are regularly applied during boatbased surveys to determine the abundance of cetaceans (e.g. Hammond et al. 2002 2013 2017 Gerrodette  Forcada 2005 Barlow  Forney 2007 ien 2009 Pike et al. 2009). When the aim is to assess a population that ranges over a large area, such as the Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena in the North Sea (see Figure 2.9), several vessels can be deployed to cover a large proportion of the study area simultaneously. In general, vessels may be of any size, noting that smaller vessels may not be able to accommodate a second platform and, therefore, values for g(0) might not be determined. A good rule is for three observers to be active, one monitoring the trackline (0) and two observing 90 on both port and starboard of the trackline thus, the 180 area to the front of the vessel is continually scanned. If there are insufficient team numbers to allocate a dedicated trackline observer, two visual observers should overlap their observation zone by 1020 across the trackline, thus providing additional visual coverage of this critical area. A data recorder notes all effort and environmental conditions throughout the survey and records all sightings. The data recorder should not simultaneously conduct visual observations, as sightings are likelyto be missed. Thus, at a minimum, a team comprising two or three visual observers, one data recorder and one rest position should conduct shipbased linetransect surveys. When a marine mammal (individual or group) is sighted, the time and position must be immediately recorded. An angle is measured to the individual (or centre of the group) and a distance from the observer to the group is estimated or measured. Angle and distance measurements can be taken using compassreticle binoculars and distances can also be measured using range (range finding) sticks. In some cases, distance from observer to sighting can be estimated by eye, provided good distance estimation procedures are in place and are regularly practised. Since angle and distance values are later used to calculate the perpendicular distance from the trackline to the sighting, these estimates must be as accurate as possible. A common error is for observers to round up angles to the nearest degree, which alters the detection function considerably, particularly when sightings are close to the trackline. Digital compass binoculars provide more accurate angle measurements and minimise rounding up errors. Although detection distances vary with species, observers should concentrate their observations close to the vessel. It is better to obtain consistent detections around the trackline than to be able to observe sightings at great distances for example, observation zones should be 500750 m radius from the observers viewpoint (with the exception of doubleplatform protocols). Sightings that are made at great distances and those made behind the 180 area are noted but not included in distance analyses. The performance of individual observers should be assessed throughout the survey. Although various configurations of observers and data recorders can be deployed, depending on the vessel type, available space, species under study and resources available (Buckland et al. 1993 2001 2004), what is essential is consistency in survey protocols and measurement accuracy. The minimum data required are angle and distance to sighting, followed by species identification and group size.