Besides avoiding building wind turbines in areas intensively used by bats (migrating andor foraging), temporary shutdowns during periods of high bat activity (mainly autumn migration period) are likely to be the most effective mitigation measure, with only minor economic impacts (Brinkmann et al. 2011). In the European Union (EU), the Habitats Directivefocuses on the protection of individual specimens of a species, with regulations that prevent the intentional killing of a bat rather than protecting specific populations (Voigt et al. 2015 Rodrigues et al. 2015). Mitigation should therefore be targeted to prevent fatalities in the first instance, but where there are unavoidable impacts, suitable methods of compensation should be identified to offset the losses (e.g. habitat creation, restoration or enhancement). However, it may be very difficult to accurately target and implement such measures for specific populations, particularly for migratory species that are of particular importance at OWFs, over large spatial scales (Voigt et al. 2012 Lehnert et al. 2014). Further research is required to quantify the impacts of the combined anthropogenic pressures on bat populations and to identify appropriate conservation measures.;Mitigation is only required to reduce any impacts to an acceptable level. Therefore, if any predicted unacceptable levels of impact can be avoided in the planning stages, there is no requirement for mitigation. It therefore makes sense to avoid areas with likely conflict with particular bird interest, including foraging areas or migratory routes (e.g. Exo et al. 2003 Everaert  Stienen 2007). Such areas should be considered in a holistic approach to marine spatial planning, whereby environmental aspects as well as profitability, social and security factors are taken into account (Ho et al. 2018 Kppel et al., Chapter 9). Geographic information systems (GIS) are an important tool for mapping and visualising the multiple factors that influence site selection, such as the physical characteristics of an area, alongside economic, social and environmental metrics. A 2018 study, focusing on potential development of OWFs in the southwest coastal area of South Korea, exemplifies this approach (ChoongKi et al. 2018). Similarly,