Measuring the success of any mitigation is difficult and ideally requires an understanding of the levels of impact in an unmitigated situation relative to one where mitigation has been applied to quantify efficacy. Of key importance is continued monitoring using appropriate survey methods to determine the response of birds (e.g. Harwood et al. 2017 Skov et al. 2018 Mendel et al. 2019) and bats to developments, while also providing information on any undesirable impacts, which may then be followed by the implementation of measures to address those impacts through an iterative process. The application of such adaptive management (Hanna et al. 2016) is variable between countries and projects and is difficult to put in place after construction. It is also debated whether monitoring has, in general, been sufficiently targeted and of sufficient rigour to be useful in the context of adaptive management (Perrow 2019). Monitoring and research need to be encouraged to provide sound evidence that the planned future expansion of the OWF industry is sustainable from the perspective of particular birds and bats.;If mitigation measures cannot be effectively applied, or even readily demonstrated, and the precautionary principle is adopted, then compensation may be required to offset both realised and potential residual impacts. Habitat creation or improvement, predator control, prey enhancement and supplementary feeding all show promise under different circumstances for different species, but few measures have yet to implemented as mitigation, partly because the evidence base for OWF impacts is only now becoming available (King 2019 Vanermen  Stienen 2019).;At the end of life of an existing OWF, repowering seems likely to be an attractive option, ideally incorporating any new technology and research to minimise risks to birds. Alternatively, where decommissioning is to be undertaken and the site restored to the baseline condition, using rehabilitation measures where necessary, there is likely to be an increasing argument for only the partial removal of turbine structures above the sea surface, as a result of the reef effect of turbine bases and scour protection benefiting biodiversity (Smyth et al. 2015 Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). However, the specific value of this for many seabirds, perhaps apart from Great Cormorant and possibly some