Specific standalone examples of the different methods and analytical techniques available are also a key feature of the chapter. These are mostly generated by the personal experiences of the authors and their respective organisations, alongside additionalinvited contributions. The focus of the work presented is from European waters, especially the North Sea, where much of the offshore wind industry has been concentrated. However, the principles established are thought to be of relevance to the development of the industry in other seas. The chapter concludes with a series of guiding principles and current recommendations on how to conduct surveys and how data should best be analysed.;The first stage when planning OWF developments should be strategic investigations on a larger scale in order to identify areas of different sensitivity. The European Strategic Environmental Assessment Directive (Directive 200142EC) provides the legal framework, but member states have applied this in different ways, reflecting their attitudes towards offshore wind and other factors (e.g. Albrecht 2007 DECC 2016). Particularly for mobile and often widely distributed seabirds, largescale strategic surveys may provide highly relevant information to shape later EIA studies and to select or deselect areas for further planning. SEAs often do not include dedicated surveys but rely on available information from the literature. In this respect, the approach taken in the UK was a positive exception. During the early planning stages, largescale aerial seabird surveys were conducted (Department of Business Energy and Regulatory Reform (BERR), unpublished report 2007) which, along with other sources of information, identified areas where conflicts might exist. This approach has been developed further using modelling techniques (Bradbury et al. 2014 Certain et al. 2015) (see Figure 3.1, representing Bradbury et al. 2014) and thus forms an important basis for developing future offshore wind energy capacity. The extent to which dedicated surveys are required depends on the information already available, the scope of intended OWF developments and on the specific situation of the marine waters where the development may take place. Largescale strategic assessments also offer the most suitable base to account for