Tracking individuals of a particular species from a breeding colony can directly determine linkages between a wind farm and the colony, broadly termed connectivity, which can then be used to partition potential effects to these populations within the impact assessment process. This has proved to be of particular interest in determining potential impacts upon protected sites, such as SPAs in Europe within a stringent HRA process (see Introduction, above). An important first step in assessment has often been to use a generic foraging range derived from a number of studies (e.g. Thaxter et al. 2012) to provide a speciesspecific representative estimate (e.g. RWE 2011 ERM 2012 Natural Power 2012 SMartWind 2013 Forewind 2014). The use of generic foraging range data occurs mainly in two stages (1) a scoping phase, whereby protected sites and species potentially impacted by the effects associated with adevelopment are identified, followed by (2) more detailed consideration of pathways of potential effects on protected sites within the foraging range during the breeding season for particular species (Figure 4.2). The latter provides a means of apportioning effects, such as collision risk or displacement, to particular sites to determine the numbers of individuals that may be affected (Figure 4.2). Generic foraging range information is ideally superseded by direct information from telemetry where connectivity between a protected site and a development has been demonstrated. This is because birds generally favour particular areas within their range and rarely display an even fanshaped distribution from colonies delivered by the use of a single range metric (Perrow et al. 2015). Representative values can be used to determine an area of potential habitat use that can then be investigated further by more intensive study (Thaxter et al. 2012). Generic species foraging ranges obtained from reviews, however, are inevitably constrained by data availability at the time, and are assumed to be maximal for a given species.