To date, noise effects on marine invertebrates have also not been studied. However, the response to noise in invertebrates is rather speciesspecific and cannot be generalised. Crustaceans, such as shrimps, krills, crabs and lobsters, respond with a high variation inbehaviour, feeding rate, growth, reproduction, metabolic level and mortality (Lagardre 1982 Carroll et al. 2017). Hitherto, detrimental effects of turbine noise have been shown only under laboratory conditions, while no corresponding effects have been detected in monitoring at actual wind farms.;A range of relatively general actions may be taken to mitigate the effects of operation and especially construction of OWFs on invertebrates and fish detailed below (Box 1.1). Fish, in particular, potentially benefit greatly from the mitigation of piledriving noise typically directed at marine mammals, such as the use of bubble curtains and casings, as well as adjustment of piling energy, pulse prolongation and advances in piling technology (see Thomsen  Verfu, Chapter 7). Irrespective of whether mitigation is attempted, windfarm projects are typically obliged to involve environmental monitoring programmes. The purposes of monitoring include verification that any effect was indeed within acceptable impact boundaries, with or without mitigation, and detecting any unforeseen environmental impacts. Such monitoring also contributes to the general understanding of how OWFs affect the local and regional environment. A properly designed baseline study and monitoring programme may also be used to test the validity of future suggestions or even accusations that the wind farm had a role in any observed ecological degradation, when other stressors, such as climate change or increased shipping activities, could have been the cause. Hence, it is of crucial importance that monitoring programmes use appropriate methods and are based on a rigorous statistical framework accounting for sitespecific spatial and temporal physical and biological variations.;Here, best practice to avoid and mitigate the impact of wind farms, during siting, construction, operation and decommissioning, upon infaunal, epifaunal and demersal and pelagic fish assemblages is described following a traditional mitigation hierarchy of avoid, reduce, compensate and restore (Cuperus et al. 1996 1999 Vaissire et al. 2015). The