Environmental issues play a central role in the consenting process of offshore wind projects. As evidenced by Volume 3 in this series (Perrow 2019), the already substantial volume of sciencebased information on the environmental impact of offshore wind farms (OWFs) is still growing, most importantly with regard to longterm and cumulative impacts. In combination with an increasingly comprehensive palette of strategies to avoid shortterm impact and longterm degradation of ecosystems, the arguments to stop a wind farm based on the precautionary principle alone are becoming weaker. After more than 15 years of environmental monitoring surveys and scientific research at OWFs, much has been learned regarding the effects on marine ecosystems. The strongest and best understood environmental stressors are associated with the construction phase, although the operational phase likely affects oceanographic processes (Brostrm et al. 2019) and the distribution and abundance of animals and therefore ecosystem functioning (Perrow 2019). In comparison to wind power on land, the use of large turbines in OWFs is facilitated by a combination of low landscape impact, eased logistics as a result of shipborne transport and assembly of turbines, and remote operation and maintenance. However, OWFs are relatively sparsely packed, sometimes with 1 km or more between turbines. Hence, the direct areal impact onmarine habitats is very minor in relation to installed capacity. Typically, the foundation footprint, and thus the habitat required to be offset, is small compared to the total occupied area. Nevertheless, physical habitat change is one of the most evident environmental issues for seabed communities, comprising the interacting assemblage of organisms in the sediment (infauna) and on sediment and structures (epifauna and algae), and benthic fish (Dannheim et al. 2019). Foundations, scour protection and cable trenches typically induce habitat change, expressed as both introductions of new hardsurface and intertidal habitats (habitat gain), and loss of habitats, such as particular sediments due to extraction, burial or changed granulometry caused by altered current patterns.;Introduction of large structures in the sea causes a potentially beneficial reef effect, which contributes towards increased biodiversity by attracting both filterfeeding epifauna and larger mobile scavengers, such as crabs and benthic fish (Dannheim et al. 2019). Demersal and benthopelagic fish use the structures as fish aggregation devices, attracted by biofouling organisms (Stenberg et al. 2015 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). The species involved include large predators, such as Atlantic Cod Gadus morhua (Reubens et al. 2013 2014a 2014b). Top predators, including marine mammals (Nehls et al. 2019), especially seals (Russell et al. 2014), and some seabirds, such as Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo and Great Blackbacked Gull Larus marinus (Vanermen  Stienen 2019), may also be attracted, resulting in a more patchy distribution of these groups. An additional effect of the increased availability of hard structures is a significant increase in filterfeeding bivalves (Mytilus spp.), with the potential to alter the areas benthic productivity rate and water clearance (Krone et al. 2013). Altogether, redistribution of marine organisms potentially changes ecosystem functions and predatorprey dynamics, affecting sedimentdwelling, pelagic and sessile organisms. The introduction of new habitat types allows for the colonisation of new, possibly invasive, species that benefit from artificial structures in open water. As OWFs are often sited far from a natural shore, the artificial intertidal habitat can potentially be used as a stepping stone for splashzone and shallowwater dependent propagules that would otherwise perish in open water.