Compensation to stakeholders to offset the impacts on ecosystem services may include a range of measures (Elliott etal. 2014). A paper based on data collected from a French project organises ecosystem services into three categories (a) provisioning, (b) regulating and (c) cultural (which is not within the scope of this chapter) (Kermagoret et al. 2014). For provisioning ecosystem services (a), two major impacts were perceived from stakeholders loss of fishing opportunities and gain of clean energy. The loss of fishing opportunities is expected from the restriction in exploitable area and the disturbance during the development phase. However, there are examples in the UK where lucrative pot fisheries for European Lobster Homarus gammarus and Edible Crab Cancer pagurus have developed as a result of the presence of windfarm structures. Some comments from stakeholders highlighted the potential for increased production of offspring within the wind farm, which effectively acts as a marine protected area (Dannheim et al. 2019). This may increase the future catch per effort outside the wind farm (Bergstrm et al. 2014). As a compensation for the loss of fishing opportunity, a seeding programme of the most important catch, Great Scallop Pecten maximus, was agreed in the French project. In this case study, fisheries were also to be compensated by receiving 35 of the annual tax based on the electricity production that the project will pay the community (14,000 per MW and year). The money was to be used to fund projects promoting sustainable fisheries and is thus the most important perceived impact on regulatory ecosystem service (b), coupled with a contribution to global climate regulation, which is inherent in all windfarm projects. At a local scale, a reef effect was to be expected at each turbine foundation, which is positive in some respects (higher diversity and higher productivity), although the net impact was not possible to judge and no further compensation was suggested.;Irrespective of foundation type, the footprint of a turbine removes one type of habitat and replaces it with another. To compensate, a concrete gravity foundation can be cast in order to enhance the surface shape to maximise the availability of habitats for decapods such as crabs and lobsters, for example (Langhamer  Wilhelmsson 2009). In cases where a specific