DTBird has been commercially available for several years and, according to DTBird (2018), 131 units of DTBird and DTBat are installed in 47 existingprojected, onshoreoffshore wind farms in 13 countries (Austria, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands, United Kingdom and the United States). In a 7 month field test, the reliability of DTBird was tested in a wind farm on the Norwegian Island Smla by comparing DTBird output to data obtained from the Merlin mobile avian radar system (DeTect) and tracking data of resident Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla fitted with GPS transmitters (May et al. 2012). The total operation period at Smla spanned 5 years. For radii of 300 m and 150 m around a wind turbine, DTBird registered, respectively, 76 and 96 of all radar recorded birds. Based on a 24 hour recording period, DTBird detected 5980 of all flight movements around the site within a 300 m radius. In contrast, small birds were only rarely recorded, although it remains debatable as to whether this is due to the lowsensitivity of DTBird or low ambient flight traffic of small birds during the study period. The rate of false positives was 1.2 per day after finetuning the system. No birds were detected at night (200 lux). Comparison with GPS data indicates that DTBird repeatedly underestimated the distance of tracked eagles to the test turbine, resulting in more events where DTBirds mitigation modules were activated.;The Acoustic Thermographic Offshore Monitoring system (ATOM) was developed by Normandeau Associates, Inc. (Gainesville, USA) in 2009 to provide baseline information to assess and mitigate offshore windpark effects on the avifauna (Normandeau Associates Inc. 2018). The original ATOM used acoustic and ultrasound sensors to record calls of birds and bats, respectively, along with two forwardfacing infrared thermal cameras (Willmott et al. 2015). The detection range of the thermal cameras was less than 180 m, with microphones achieving lower ranges, depending on environmental conditions and species involved, while the detection range for bat calls was less than 20 m (Collier et al. 2011). An updated version of ATOM also includes a visual light camera (Willmott et al. 2015). Simultaneous operation of both thermalimaging cameras allows the calculation of the flight altitude of birds and bats. ATOM also generates data on the abundance, flight velocity and flight direction of birds and bats, but does not record collision events. Data are stored on site, but data transfer via satellite connections to a remote station can also be achieved. A 1 month field test onshore as well as a 15 month test off the Atlantic US coast demonstrated the feasibility of ATOM for gathering baseline data (Willmott et al. 2015).