The Yttre Stengrund and Vindeby OWFs were decommissioned in 20162017, with around ten further sites predicted to bedecommissioned (or repowered) in the coming decade (Topham  McMillan 2017). Experiences have shown that some infrastructure such as deep foundations may be particularly difficult to remove, and could even require destructive methods such as the use of explosives, with potential impacts upon fish and their bird predators. The most effective mitigation of such impacts may be the use of alternative construction methods such as GBF or floating foundations in the first place.;Moreover, in many cases repowering or refurbishment of sites may defer their decommissioning, and where pursued it will afford the opportunity to reassess mitigation requirements and implement any new measures that may be appropriate. Replacing many inefficient smaller turbines with fewer more efficient larger ones, which are carefully placed, could lead to significant decreases in collision risk (de Lucas et al. 2012 Smallwood 2017). Similarly, removing or relocating specific turbines that represent the greatest risk to birds could substantially reduce the overall impact (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Smallwood 2017). Whether an OWF is decommissioned, refurbished or repowered, monitoring should still maintain a key role in ensuring that any mitigation has been effective and understanding any residual impacts.;Where removal is ultimately required, it remains difficult to evaluate how long it may take habitats and ecosystems to recover to predevelopment characteristics following a sustained perturbation (May 2017). Indeed, the bathymetry around an OWF may have been altered beyond practicable restoration, with associated changes in benthic communities and food webs. Extensive rehabilitation efforts may be required at this point to aid in the return to normal ecosystem functioning, assuming that any changes to the habitat and associated wildlife assemblage are undesirable. There is growing evidence (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019) that positive reef effects will have occurred and a renewablestoreefs strategy may often be the most appropriate action from the perspective of biodiversity. In fact, many wind farms may have become so valuable that they would be considered as marine protected areas (Ashley et al. 2014). In this case, there will be an argument for only partial removal of the turbine foundations, perhaps above the sea surface. However, it remains