To the authors knowledge, none of the models accounts for the attraction of nightmigrating birds or bats (i.e. negative avoidance) by artificial light, which has been identified as the key factor influencing bird presence near the rotorswept zone (Hill et al. 2014). Moreover, already slightly inaccurate estimates of model parameters can strongly modify model output. Chamberlain et al. (2006) demonstrated that small changes in avoidance rate can lead to inflationary deviations in predicted mortality rates. As avoidance rates have rarely been empirically determined at different spatial scales during day and night or in relation to the operational status of a wind farm, indepth measurement of avoidanceattraction behaviour of birds and bats at different spatial scales seems mandatory to improve the output of CRMs. Furthermore, causal detachment of input values introduces considerable uncertainty to model output (Green et al. 2016). For example, many Environmental Impact Assessments merge sitespecific preconstruction data on bird activity with avoidance rates determined elsewhere or in other taxa. Last but not least, the majority of CRMs neglect environmental, intraspecific and interspecific variability, which may at least partly explain the weak match between the mortality predicted by a model and the observed mortality in the field (Green et al. 2016 Masden  Cook 2016, and references therein).;Progress in the field of collision risk assessment is hampered by a mismatch between rigid model assumptions and the quality of the empirical input data. A models output can only be as good as its input. Thus, the validation of modelbased hypotheses on collision rates and the population consequences of added mortality for birds and bats will remain difficult to assess as long as the density and quality of data have not improved. Empirical model validation, and if necessary, refinement is decisive owing to the lack of appropriate methods to quantify actual collision events.; First, the accuracy in the quantification of avoidanceattraction rates needs to be raised, as small changes alter CRM output tremendously (Chamberlain et al. 2006 Cook  Masden, Chapter 5). In terms of macroavoidance, tracking with radiotags seems to be a practical solution for small avifauna, including landbirds and waterbirds as well as migratory bats. For most seabird species, GPS tags with high spatiotemporal resolution can be used in combination with other remotesensing technology, such as radar, video or thermal imaging. In terms of microavoidance, the turbine structure, and in particular, the rotorswept area, need to be continuously monitored with stereovisual and infrared or thermal cameras of high optical resolution strategically mounted at the base of each rotor blade (Suryan et al. 2016) or turbine nacelle (Schulz et al. 2014). Additional cameras are needed to record barotraumatic bat (and possibly small bird) fatalities potentially caused in the wake of the turbine outside the rotorswept area.  Secondly, the ability to directly register bird and bat collisions with wind turbines needs improvement because fatality monitoring cannot be carried out offshore to quantify collisions or to validate CRMs. The most appropriate available methodology to achieve this