Vibratory piling, also known as vibropiling or vibrodriving, is a lownoise foundation installation technology in which a vibratory hammer unit placed on top of a pile replaces the conventional impact piledriver. The working principle of a vibrodriver is basedon balanced pairs of counterrotating eccentric masses that generate a resultant downward force. The pile is then vibrated into the soil at a specific frequency along its vertical axis. Vibropiling is suitable for medium to dense seabed substrates, including medium to densely bedded sands and cohesive materials. Employment of modern technology permits the installation of very large piles. In extreme cases, piles with diameters up to 30 m have been driven with several vibratory units that were combined to make one bigger system (APE 2017). Experience in offshore wind installation covers a larger number of pin piles for tripod foundations, and monopiles with diameters of up to 6.5 m (de Neef et al. 2013).;Vibratory piling offers several benefits over impact piledriving, including a faster installation time, lower demand for auxiliary energy and lower noise emissions. The technology has been used at a number of windfarm sites in the German part of the North Sea, including the BARD Offshore 1 (80 tripiles), Riffgat (30 monopiles) and Global Tech 1 (80 tripods) wind farms. However, owing to some unresolved aspects with regard to the bearing capacity of vibrodriven piles, and uncertainties regarding predictions of the vibrability of piles, the technology has still not broken through in the industry. As existing design guidelines that specify requirements for axial proof loads are only valid for impactdriven piles, where these requirements exist, vibratory piling is restricted to the upper metres of a piling process. Thus, a previbrating and post hammering approach was followed in all of the aforementioned OWF projects, which means that after initial vibratory piling, the piles needed to be impact driven to target depth to establish the needed bearing capacity (DFI  GDG 2015). The downside of this twostage approach is that the installation vessel needs to be fitted with both a vibrodriver and an impact piledriver. In addition, the application of noisemitigation systems during posthammering is mandatory in some European countries to keep the noise below certain thresholds (Table 7.3).