(Farnsworth 2005), suggesting that the number of flight calls only partly reflects actual bird density or species diversity. Secondly, flight calls do not allow discrimination of gender or age. Thirdly, the number of flight calls is often higher at night and in deteriorating weather (Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012). This may reflect an increase in percapita call rate as a result of a behavioural response to existing conditions that causes individual birds to call more frequently (i.e. a limited proxy of the number of individuals present), an increased number of birds at lower altitude, or a combination of both. Fourthly, despite the expanding use of flight call algorithms and automated analytical software, the analysis of acoustic data remains generally labour intensive owing to the need for verification of sound files by trained staff (Bardeli et al. 2010). According to Ross  Allen (2014), automated analytical software has been made available in an R package (flightcallr), which reduces the manual workload by over 80. Yet, a significant error probability remains associated with the use of this software. Automated analysis of bird sounds has also been implemented for realtime identification of songbird species in remote monitoring networks, such as the Automated Remote Biodiversity Monitoring Network (ARBIMON) (Aide et al. 2013). The rate of automated false positives or wrongly identified detections, however, is generally higher than in manual analyses (Hill  Hppop 2011). Random sampling of acoustic data by trained personnel is another approach used to ensure the quality of accurate species identification and to increase the efficiency of acoustic surveys (e.g. Wimmer et al. 2013). In all cases, acoustic surveys should include a rigorous post assessment quality review to maximise accuracy. Finally, although analytical programs are becoming more effective in terms of segregating calls from background noise, recordings of avian flight calls are frequently contaminated by noise generated by the wind turbines, as well as by wind and wave action, endemic in offshore environments. Farnsworth  Russell (2007), for instance, were unable to use sound recordings of frequencies below 6 kHz because of noise from waves. The use of dedicated software, such as Automatic Recording of Migrating Aves (AROMA), which separates bird calls from background noise, allows the analysis of species composition and migration phenology in combination with weathereffects (Hppop et al. 2012 Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012 Hill et al. 2014).;Overall, the sole use of acoustic data is insufficient to monitor flight activity. However, acoustic data can supplement monitoring schemes that rely on other remotesensing technologies and observerbased approaches (Ronconi et al. 2015). In this way, the predictive power of collision risk models (CRMs) can improve considerably.;Bats use ultrasound echolocation calls for shortdistance orientation (Griffin 1958). Following the development of ultrasound detectors in the 1980s, acoustic surveys have become the most common method to study the ecology of bats, including in relation to wind farms (Hein 2017). Today, several types of bat detectors of four different transformation systems (heterodyning, frequency division, time expansion and direct recording) are in use (Parsons  Szewczak 2009) and several authors discuss the use of bat detectors and the identification of bats by their sound (e.g. Fenton  Bell 1981 Ahln 1990 Parsons  Szewczak 2009 Russ et al. 2012 Barataud 2015). The method does have some obvious constraints (1) the detection range of bat echolocation calls is species specifically limited to a range of 30100 m (e.g. Barataud 2015), (2) as with acoustic bird studies, recorded events can arise either from one individual passing by several times or from several different individuals, and (3) echolocation calls do not provide information on the age and sex of bats. Nevertheless, the approach of finding and identifying bats by recording their calls is generally convenient since the technique is both affordable and easy to deploy (Hein 2017). In addition, intraspecific modification of echolocation calls can provide direct evidence on the presence and behaviour of bats, such as exploring or feeding at offshore structures (Hppop  Hill 2016).;Bat detector systems have been used to study bat activity and migration in onshore (Ahln 1997 Ahln et al. 2009) and offshore environments (Walter et al. 2007 Ahln et al. 2009 Pelletier et al. 2013 Peterson 2016) (Box 6.1). Automated recording devices are