of visual or acoustic signals. This group comprises ID Stat as a microphone array, and the video arrays of the Thermal Animal Detection System (TADS) and the Visual Automatic Recording System (VARS). The second category includes systems that are combinations of different types of sensors integrated into one system. At the time of writing, there are six existing systems, but in different stages of development. (1) WTBird is a collisiontriggered system combining infrared cameras, acoustic and contact microphones, with the objective of detecting and registering bird collisions. A prototype was tested onshore and offshore in Dutch waters (Wiggelinkhuizen  den Boon 2010). (2) DTBird combines acoustic with optical (visual video cameras) devices and allows the addition of thermal imaging cameras. Its objective is the detection and deterrence of near flying birds, quantification of bird collisions and mitigation of collisions through automated shutdown when birds underrun a critical distance from a wind turbine. Technical additions for nocturnal measurements have been developed. The accuracy of a visually triggered prototype was tested over a 5year period (May et al. 2012) and is commercially available. (3) The Acoustic Thermographic Offshore Monitoring (ATOM) system, a prototype equipped with thermal imaging, infrared and visual cameras, as well as two types of microphones (acoustic and ultrasound), was tested in the USA in a 1month onshore and 15month offshore environment (Willmott et al. 2015). Its objective is to provide information on abundance, size, identity and flight parameters (altitude, direction, velocity) of birds and bats to mitigate collision mortality. (4) The MultiSensor wildlife detection system (MUSE) uses pantilt visual and thermal cameras together with surveillance radar. Its objective is to combine quantification of avoidance behaviour and collision events with mitigation procedures. The system was tested offshore during the Offshore Renewables Joint Industry Programme (ORJIP) Bird Collision Avoidance study from 2014 to 2016 (Box 6.4). (5) The Wind Turbine Sensor Unit constitutes of accelerometers, contact microphones, stereovisual and stereoinfrared cameras and acoustic and ultrasonic microphones with the objective of providing contacttriggeredmonitoring of bird and bat collisions. A prototype was developed and tested in the USA in two 1 month runs (Suryan et al. 2016). (6) MultiBird is the multisensor extension of DTBird, comprising a rotating 360 thermal imaging camera with automatic bird detection and recording software, four video cameras from DTBird and a Robin Radar 3D system consisting of a horizontally and a vertically rotating radar. The objective of the system is to provide information on abundance, size, identity and flight parameters (altitude, direction, velocity) of birds during night and day at the highest possible range and also during poor weather conditions. All sensors are mounted at the FINO 1 research platform in the southeastern North Sea (unpublished data R. Hill).;In conclusion, the currently available multisensory detection systems show limited success in the detection of collision events. Moreover, they do not allow estimation of either micro or macroavoidance of small birds at the species group or species level. Furthermore, only data on false positives are available, but the number of birds or bats missed at the sensor level by the different systems cannot be assessed based on the published information.;Table 6.1 Comparison of the configuration and performance of all published multisensor systems presented in this chapter used to quantify the activity of birds and bats around and their collisions with offshore structures..