The most serious effects of tags and their attachments are through direct physical injury, a reduction in body condition, and compromised feeding ability leading to reduced nesting success and lower adult survival (Thaxter et al. 2016). However, a wide variation of species responses has been recorded, and consequently, there have been numerous reviews on this subject (e.g. Barron et al. 2010 Vandenabele et al. 2011). The picture is complicated further by the range of metrics often used to investigate the effects of tags and their attachments, which also vary between studies. Many shortterm studies during breeding, for example using tags attached through tape to feathers, have reported no effects on metrics such as foraging activity, breedingsite attendance or preydelivery to chicks (e.g. Benvenuti et al. 2001 Hamer et al. 2007), although effects on such metrics have been reported in other studies (e.g. Massey et al. 1988 Hamel et al. 2004 Harris et al. 2012). The picture is also mixed for longer term studies. For example, a GPS tag attached using a wing harnesses to Great Skuas Stercorarius skua in Scotland (Figure 4.1) had no shortterm effects on breeding productivity during the year of marking, but reduced return rates in comparison to control birds the following year. By contrast, for Lesser Blackbacked Gulls Larus fuscus tagged using the same tag type and attachment (Figure 4.1), survival and breeding success was comparable to control birds (Thaxter et al. 2016). For geolocators attached to legrings (Figure 4.1), Weiser et al. (2016) found that return rates and hatching success were lowered in only the three smallest species of 16 shorebirds studied, with results also dependent on the attachment method to the legring and the overall weight of the tag (e.g. Weiser et al. 2016). More subtle responses of species to tag and attachment methods could also go unnoticed by studying only coarser measures such as breeding productivity and survival. Detailed investigations into behaviour, such as flight duration (Chivers et al. 2016), or ecophysiologcal measures, such as corticosterone levels and leucocyte bloodcell counts (Elliott et al. 2012 Ludynia et al. 2012), may also be needed.;Following a metaanalysis of over 200 tagging studies, Bodey et al. (2018) provide recommendations on the essential information that should be gathered to facilitate the assessment of impacts of the attachment of tags to birds in the future. This accepts that telemetry studies must always seek to minimise potential impacts of the tag and their attachment method on the species studied for both the welfare of the bird and the scientific veracity of data gathered. Advances are also being made in tag designs and attachment methods. For instance, the use of weaklink harnesses (e.g. Scragg et al. 2016) allows the tag and harness to detach from the bird after a period of time, thus helping to minimise potential longterm impacts. Tagging may only be undertaken under licence following independent assessment of the project, such as by the Special Methods