There are, however, several crucial limitations of radar technology for studying the interactions between turbines and birds and bats. Most importantly, radar cannot detect collisions because of its spatial resolution. Even modern radar devices do not differentiate between birds, bats and rotor blades because the spatial resolution of radar signals is still too coarse (Gauthreaux  Belser 2003 Urmy et al. 2017). Secondly, relatively high radio wave reflectivity by the wind turbine itself masks bird or bat signals owing to overlapping radar echoes in the nearturbine airspace as well as the formation of radar shadows on the far side of the wind turbine relative to the radar. Hence, the disappearance of an echo after a bat or bird has entered the rotorswept airspace may be due to collision, to the animals entrance into the turbines radar shadow or to its departure from the area covered by the radar beam. Thirdly, when using a pencilbeam radar for quantification of altitudinal bird distribution, detectability is limited at very low altitudes because of the extremely small sampling volume near the source of a pencil beam. For this reason, Gauthreaux  Livingston (2006), for instance, were unable to quantify bird migration at altitudes below 25 m. Fourthly, radar tracking is dependent on target course and velocity. Echoes of animals flying at low radial speed, for example in headwind conditions, or tangentially to a radar beam are frequently undetected by Doppler radar systems. Kelly et al. (2009) mention wave clutter, interference with ship radar and difficulties in detecting birds on or directly above the sea surface as specific problems for radar application in offshore environments. Nevertheless, Kelly et al. (2009) also suggest solutions to these problems, such as the use of (1) vertically scanning or profiling radar systems or installation of an artificial radar horizon to avoid the effects of wave clutter, (2) constant false alarm rate processing or interference rejection algorithms to minimise interference with a ships radar, and (3) Doppler processing, scantoscan integration correlation or frequency diversity processing to enhance the detection of bats and birds closeto or on the sea surface.;Finally, rather than generating assessments based on scattered, localised information on aerial animal movements, radar may be used at a broader landscape scale incorporating wind farms. For example, Doppler radar network systems such as ENRAM (European Network for the Radar surveillance of Animal Movement) or NEXRAD (NextGeneration Radar) synchronise individual regional European and US weather radars, respectively, to obtain broad, largescale aerial movements of birds, bats and insects (Shamoun Baranes et al. 2014 Stepanian et al. 2016b). The first ENRAM study revealed continental patterns of nocturnal autumn migration dynamics (Nilsson et al. 2018). In a similar vein, radar systems that allow tracking of flights of individuals over longer distances by software are being improved. Flyways of birds equipped with a radar beacon can be elucidated with weather radar over long distances (Bridge et al. 2011). This, however, involves catching (and manipulating) birds and bats, as undertaken in telemetry studies (see Thaxter  Perrow, Chapter 4).;Vocalisations of birds and bats cover distinct frequencies, for which different types of microphones are available. Information is therefore presented separately for birds and for bats.;Many bird species express flight calls within a narrow frequency band ranging between 1 and 10 kHz (Ronconi et al. 2015) and typically of 50300 ms duration (Farnsworth 2005). Recordings of these calls can be used to identify bird species (Evans 2005 Farnsworth 2005) and have been used to assess migration phenology and intensity (Farnsworth  Russell 2007 Hppop et al. 2012 Ronconi et al. 2015). These signals are also potentially detectable within the rotorswept area of turbines (Buxton  Jones 2012 Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012) and offer the only available monitoring method for groundtruthing nocturnally migrating bird species (Stepanian et al. 2016a).