 In both characterisation and impact monitoring studies, the size of survey areas must extend beyond the area where seabirds may respond to the wind farm. In this respect, the size of survey areas will differ between projects and depend on the target species. Many studies of changes in the distribution of Redthroated Diver following windfarm construction suggest that effects can be found at up to 12 km from the wind turbines (Petersen et al. 2014 Welcker  Nehls 2016 Webb et al. 2017 Mendel et al. 2019). In contrast, 2 km appears to be the limit of Northern Gannet displacement at least at one wind farm (Webb et al. 2017). Clearly, it is important that sufficient data are collected in the region beyond the displacement distance for the key species in the project. In German OWF projects, aerial survey sites are required to extend at least 20 km beyond windfarm boundaries, covering at least 2,000 km2. This appears to be sufficient to cover the full gradient of seabird response to the wind farm, even for sensitive species, but is already at the limit of covering full response ranges of marine mammals to unmitigated pile driving noise (e.g. Brandt et al. 2011). Camphuysen et al. (2004) recommended that the study area should be six times the area of the development in the UK, but this recommendation has rarely been followed. Smaller study areas may be chosen in areas where surveys would extend beyond the suitable habitat of the species of interest, where these have restricted habitat choices.  In relation to large study areas and where the focus is on theabundance and potential displacement of seabirds, aerial surveys using a fastmoving platform are likely to be the preferred method. In contrast, the relatively small area that can be covered by a boat based survey in one day makes this method less attractive. Further, as digital aerial surveys flying above 500 m do not cause disturbance and achieve a very high identification rate, they are especially useful in covering the area affected by multiple neighbouring wind farms.  Boatbased surveys are, however, best suited to provide detailed information on seabird behaviour and flight height. Boats provide an opportunity to measure seabird flight height with some degree of accuracy when supported by laser rangefinders (Borkenhagen et al. 2018 Harwood et al. 2018). There are also a number of environmental parameters that can be measured during boat surveys that may influence seabird distribution at a project site, such as tidal variation, sea salinity and temperature, chlorophyll a and, of course, fish abundance and distribution.  The proportion of area covered by either boatbased or aerial transects may differ between projects in relation to size of the project area as well as abundance and distribution pattern of species of interest. It is recommended that this be at least 10 of the study area (valid effort accounting for glare) (BSH 2013). Modelling techniques, such as the MRSea suite of tools (Scott Hayward et al. 2013), may allow robust predictions of species distribution and densities at lower area coverage, but in order to measure avoidance ranges accurately, sample size inevitably becomes the limiting factor at larger distances from the OWF. Thus, higher coverage may be preferred during construction and operation of the wind farms. Power analysis is an important statistical technique for estimating the power of a given survey design to detect change, if a representative set of survey data is available of known precision and, ideally, error structure (Mackenzie et al. 2017) which can be used to design impact studies at OWFs.  Surveys are usually carried out once or twice per month during the period that the species of interest occur. Most EIA studies require that this is maintained through a whole annual cycle as different species may occur at different times of the year. More frequent surveys may be required during the breeding season.  Weather may restrict the number of surveys that can be