Dealing with the four options in turn, the simplest approach to reduce potential impacts is to avoid areas that have been identified as most important for birds within the developable area. In the authors experience, there are a number of examples where, during the planning stages, developers have decided to modify the areas available for development in order to reduce consenting risk. For example, during characterisation of the Round 3 Firth of Forth Zone using boatbased surveys, Scalp Bank was identified as being important for birds, in accordance with available literature (Wanless et al. 1998 Harris et al. 2012). As a result, Scalp Bank was excluded from the Phase 1 project development areas (Seagreen Wind Energy 2018). Similarly, at the Round 2 Race Bank in the Greater Wash, areas of particularly high use by Sandwich Ternswere also excluded from development (Figure 8.3). The identification of important areas for birds at a local scale to facilitate micrositing has previously been undertaken at terrestrial sites using a GISbased approach in the INTACT project (see Box 6.3 in May 2017). Moreover, as well as simply using areas of high density, it is possible to generate spatial heat maps of collision risk from a combination of density data and speciesspecific parameters that are incorporated into collision risk modelling (see Figure 5.1 in Cook  Masden, Chapter 5), as shown in Figure 8.4. The sensitive species underpinning that exercise (with the exclusion of Great Blackbacked Gull,possiblythe seabird species most vulnerable to collision see Figure 9.7 in King 2019) and that often feature in collision risk assessment and discussions of any need to mitigate collision risk are shown in Figure 8.5. In principle, a reduction of the area of the proposed site to reduce potential impacts may be achieved without compromising the capacity of the site, although this does depend on the initial proposed area effectively being surplus to requirements and the maintenance of the optimal spacing of turbines to maximise their efficiency.