Balaenoptera physalus and Humpback Whale Megaptera novaeangliae (Fretwell et al. 2014 Cubaynes et al. 2019), as well as different pinniped species (LaRue et al. 2011 McMahon et al. 2014 Moxley et al. 2017). There is still much to be developed with regard to analytical protocols, such as correction factors for abundance estimates and, to be truly efficient, algorithms to automatically detect marine mammals. For cetaceans, this method has only been useful for larger whales however, as technology improves, it is likely that satellite imagery will be of sufficient resolution to detect and identify even the smallest of species. This may be a useful method in the future for windfarm monitoring, but has limited application at this time.;Marine mammals, particularly toothed cetaceans (Odontoceti), are highly vocal and rely on the emission and reception of sound to communicate, forage and navigate. PAM techniques detect the presence of vocalising marine mammals and it is often possible to identify the different species present. From detailed analyses of vocalisations, some behavioural information can also be inferred. PAM systems deployed during boatbased surveys can provide spatial information on the abundance and distribution of the species that are acoustically detected (Figure 2.6). Static acoustic devices anchored to the seabed, or suspended in the water column, provide temporal information useful for monitoring species occurrence and trends in habitat use (see Passive acoustic monitoring surveys using static devices, below). Using acoustic arrays with multiple hydrophones typically fixed on to long cables (400 m), it is possible to collect data that allow relative abundance estimation through distance sampling techniques (Buckland  York 2017). Since the 1970s, such systems have been used extensively for marine mammal research (e.g. Watlington 1979 Gordon et al. 1999 Gillespie  Chappell 2002) and more recently have become an integral part of cetacean monitoring in relation to wind farms. Differences in the time of arrival of cetacean vocalisations at stereo pairs of hydrophones can be used to calculate bearings to the