R (R Core Team 2018), can be used to analyse variations in the detectability of birds and correct density estimates accordingly. Buckland et al. (2001) define the central concept of distance analysis as the modelling of the detection function, g(x), which is the probability of detecting an object (a bird or group of birds), given that it is at distance x from a transect line or point (in the case of snapshots) (see Box 2.1 in Scheidat  Porter, Chapter 2).;Distance correction analysis of bird survey data makes several important assumptions about the nature of the underlying data (1) objects on the line (or point) are detected with 100 certainty that is, all animals are detected (2) objects are detected at their initial location that is, animals do not move in response to the survey platform (flushing, swimming or diving) prior to being observed and (3) measurements are exact that is, the distance to the animal is measured accurately (Buckland et al. 2001). Thus, it is important that any birds that may have been attracted or associated with the survey vessel or any other vessel or structure are excluded from any analysis.;Distance corrections are largely only applied to birds on the water in linetransect surveys. In general, more than 60 observations are needed to generate a reasonable model (Thomas et al. 2009). Data from multiple surveys can be pooled for analyses if there is no reason to believe that detectability would vary as a function of the survey. Where there are changes between surveys, if they can be parameterised they may be included as explanatory variables in the models. Observation group size, or cluster size, is also accounted for within analyses either by using a mean value or sizebiased regression, or using it as an explanatory variable in the model itself. Sea state, being a key variable that may affect the detectability of birds, is also often included in analyses where there are sufficient observations in different sea states, although data can be pooled if necessary.;Models are fitted using various key functions (uniform, half normal, hazard rate or negative exponential), with or without adjustment terms (e.g. cosine, simple polynomial or hermite