Multisensor systems fall into two broad categories. The first comprises systems with multiple devices of the same sensor type that strive for maximum spatial coverage in the detectionof visual or acoustic signals. This group comprises ID Stat as a microphone array, and the video arrays of the Thermal Animal Detection System (TADS) and the Visual Automatic Recording System (VARS). The second category includes systems that are combinations of different types of sensors integrated into one system. At the time of writing, there are six existing systems, but in different stages of development. (1) WTBird is a collisiontriggered system combining infrared cameras, acoustic and contact microphones, with the objective of detecting and registering bird collisions. A prototype was tested onshore and offshore in Dutch waters (Wiggelinkhuizen  den Boon 2010). (2) DTBird combines acoustic with optical (visual video cameras) devices and allows the addition of thermal imaging cameras. Its objective is the detection and deterrence of near flying birds, quantification of bird collisions and mitigation of collisions through automated shutdown when birds underrun a critical distance from a wind turbine. Technical additions for nocturnal measurements have been developed. The accuracy of a visually triggered prototype was tested over a 5year period (May et al. 2012) and is commercially available. (3) The Acoustic Thermographic Offshore Monitoring (ATOM) system, a prototype equipped with thermal imaging, infrared and visual cameras, as well as two types of microphones (acoustic and ultrasound), was tested in the USA in a 1month onshore and 15month offshore environment (Willmott et al. 2015). Its objective is to provide information on abundance, size, identity and flight parameters (altitude, direction, velocity) of birds and bats to mitigate collision mortality. (4) The MultiSensor wildlife detection system (MUSE) uses pantilt visual and thermal cameras together with surveillance radar. Its objective is to combine quantification of avoidance behaviour and collision events with mitigation procedures. The system was tested offshore during the Offshore Renewables Joint Industry Programme (ORJIP) Bird Collision Avoidance study from 2014 to 2016 (Box 6.4). (5) The Wind Turbine Sensor Unit constitutes of accelerometers, contact microphones, stereovisual and stereoinfrared cameras and acoustic and ultrasonic microphones with the objective of providing contacttriggered