 How do you think the outputs from collisionpopulation models should be applied in the consenting process? Outputs should reflect the uncertainty inherent in both types of model as many of the parameters used are not well known or understood, or may vary according to different circumstances. Consent documents should provide a detailed explanation of how and why this uncertainty, represented by a range of possible outcomes, has been taken into accounteven where, perhaps by necessity, the final decision is based on a single value, for example a threshold of mortality for a species at a Special Protection Area.; What do you think are the key issues with how the model outputs are currently applied? Model outputs tend to cause problems when there are unresolved disagreements between the parties involved about the appropriate model to be used andor the way outputs are presented and interpreted. Standardised advice is helpful for example, in the UK, the Statutory Nature Conservation Bodies advice on collision risk modelling (SNCBs 2014).; In your opinion, what problems have these issues caused the consenting process? Unresolved issues can cause significant time and economic costs to all participants both pre and postconsent. They are exacerbated where positions become entrenched or, by contrast, methods evolve during the determination process. If specific thresholds are used, they may lead to developers committing to equally specific project modifications which are embedded as consent conditions.;Docking Shoal (UK) was refused consent in 2012 owing to its effect on the incombination collision mortality of breeding Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis at the North Norfolk Coast Special Protection Area (SPA). The determination process took 3.5 years at a cost to the developer (among others) of millions of pounds (Macalister 2012). This was, in large part, due to the difficulties of agreeing the in combination collision mortality and consequent population effects on the colony at the same time as offshore collision risk modelling was evolving and project modifications were being undertaken to reduce collision effects.