One example of extensive monitoring of the benthic fish communityin a wind farm was conducted using fyke nets for both monitoring and markrecapture studies at the Lillgrund OWF in Sweden (Bergstrm et al. 2013 Langhamer et al. 2018) (Box 1.2). Many replicates (36 stations in each of the impact areas and two reference areas) and long time series (4 years before and 3 years after) provided a good understanding of which species were attracted by the foundations, such as Atlantic Cod, and which were not, such as Viviparous Eelpout (Box 1.2). Moreover, the use of fykes allowed a detailed investigation of the biometrics, reproductive output (broods) and population structure of the latter species (Langhamer et al. 2018) (Box 1.2). In the study at Lillgrund, bait was used to attract individuals and obtain high catch rates. An advantage of using fyke nets is that fish are mostly caught uninjured and in generally good condition, unlike using gill nets or actively towed gear. Furthermore, fish can be safely released after capture, which makes this method suitable for tagging experiments on living fish. Fyke nets are, however, rather selective and do not cover all species, but mainly target smaller demersal and benthic fish speciesindividuals, as well as macrocrustaceans.;Gill nets and survey nets (gill nets with a range of mesh sizes) have also been used in windfarm baseline and monitoring programmes to sample benthic fish in some circumstances (e.g. Dahlgren et al. 2014). Gill nets are very target specific but have the advantage of being long (hundreds of metres) and are thus able to survey a larger area, thereby reducing variation. Survey nets are short (tens of metres) but have various mesh sizes in panels per net, thus covering many species, but typically at the cost of high variation in the data delivered, leading to low statistical power, unless a large number of nets are used. In areas where large crustaceans, such as Green Crab Carcinus maenas, Edible Crab Cancer pagurus and hermit crabs Pagurus spp., are common, the use of nets becomes expensive as entangled crustaceans are hard to remove without destroying the mesh.;Cage or pot fishing is another traditional monitoring method with a long history that can be used for population studies, including telemetry of macrocrustaceans and fish as well as impact assessments. Nedwell et al. (2003b) used cage fishing for experimental noise studies in which they investigated behavioural