This chapter describes the current state of knowledge in technologies and approaches to mitigate underwater noise that arises during the installation of OWFs. It builds on earlier reviews (Caltrans 2009 OSPAR 2016 Verfu 2014) and covers a wide range of peerreviewed papers and grey literature in the form of reports and other publicly available information from press releases and websites. Experiences are mainly drawn from the North Sea region in northwestern Europe, as this has been the focal area for offshore wind to date. However, theoretical considerations that may be relevant for sites being developed in other markets across the globe, such as in the USA, Taiwan or Japan, are also provided. To structure the review, mitigation measures were divided into three main categories (1) Source mitigation, whereby sound is reduced directly at source, (2) Channel mitigation, which refers to any method that reduces the sound emitted into the water column thatis, in the channel between the sound source and the receiver (marine life), and (3) Receiver mitigation, categorised as any other methods that prevent the receiver from being close to the sound source, including acoustic management devices aimed at deterring animals from the danger zone, establishment of safety zones, soft start for piling operations and temporal restrictions. The chapter then reviews relevant lownoise foundation installation technologies as an alternative to impact piledriving, before closing with a review of other foundation types such as gravitybased foundations and floating designs.;Although what is considered to be best practice of sound mitigation is described, the decision about the exact methodology (source, channel andor receiver mitigation) used to manage the risk of windfarm related sounds lies with the specific windfarm developer, installation contractor and regulator. Regulators will eventually base their approval decisions on sitespecific EIAs. Any noisemitigation measure has its cost implications, and the costs can vary hugely based on the chosen mitigation strategy and site specificities (see examples by Nehls et al. 2007 Diederichs et al. 2014 Schorcht 2014). In the event that the deployment of noise reduction technologies (NRTs) affects the construction schedule, this may add significantly to the installation costs. A detailed cost discussion is, however, beyond the scope of this chapter.;For acoustic terminology, ISO 18405 Underwater acoustics  terminology (ISO 2017) is followed throughout (see also Box 7.1).