Figure 6.2 (a) VARS infraredsensitive camera system mounted on the nacelle of a wind turbine at Alpha Ventus in the German Bight (b) an infraredsensitive photograph of the front of the camera system showing the infrared spotlights surrounding the camera that enable bird detection at night. (IfA);The advantage of nightvision devices is a rather high degree of detail concerning species composition and behaviour of animals moving in the surroundings of the observer (Kirkwood  Cartwright 1993 Allison  Destefano 2006 Kunz et al. 2007 Horn et al. 2008). The disadvantages of nightvision devices include the relatively high costs for qualitatively acceptable equipment, weather dependency, susceptibility to lightpollution and overexposure (Kunz et al. 2007). Furthermore, recording nocturnal flight activity near turbines with nightvision equipment or video cameras requires mounting devices on or close to a turbine.;Thermal imaging devices detect the longwave (215 m) infrared radiation emitted by any bodies, which are, in the case of birds and bats, usually significantly warmer than their environment. As the detectability of infrared radiation increases with the temperature difference between a body and its background, birds and bats are generally readily perceived by thermal imaging devices offshore, at least in temperate and higher latitudes where water and air temperatures are lower, yearround, than the body temperature of homoeothermic animals. This thermal disparity is further enhanced at night, improving the accuracy of thermal imaging for quantification of nocturnal animal movements at sea. As a result, thermal imaging is particularly appealing for monitoring the interactions between offshore wind turbines and bats or migratory birds because bats are nocturnal and avian migration passage rates tend to be higher at night than during daylight hours (e.g. Hppop et al. 2006 Welcker et al. 2017). Nevertheless, thermal imaging devices have a lower spatial resolution than visible lightsensitive video cameras of comparable focal length and, hence, operate at shorter ranges. They are also unable to detect bats and smaller birds