Acceptable biological change (ABC) was set out as a method for assessing the population impact of an OWF by Marine Scotland (2015). Using terminology from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), ABC allows for a change of up to onethird in the probability of a defined target being achieved as a result of the impact of a management intervention, which is classed by the IPCC as representing an outcome that is as likely as not (Mastrandrea et al. 2010). This was applied to different population model metrics, for example, population size (ABCn) or the probability of the population growth rate () being less than 1 (ABC1). This is binary, with impacts assessed as 1 (acceptable) or 0 (not acceptable). However, this approach has been widelycriticised (e.g. Cook  Robinson 2015 Green et al. 2016) and it seems unlikely that it will be used in the future.;A key flaw in ABC is that whether or not the impacts associated with a wind farm may be deemed acceptable can be driven by uncertainty surrounding the demographic parameters used in the underlying models. This uncertainty may be influenced by sampling variance (Gould  Nichols 1998) or may not have been estimated over a sufficient period to reflect the true variability of the population concerned (Lande et al. 2003). Consequently, any assessment made using ABC may reflect limitations in the available data, rather than the biology of the species concerned. It is further argued that thresholds determined by ABC are applied inappropriately (Green et al. 2016).;Using the decline probability difference (DPD), the probability of a population declining is estimated for models with and without a management intervention. This probability could be expressed in relation to growth rate e.g. probability that growth rate 1 (DPD1) or population size e.g. probability that population declines by 25 (DPD25). This metric is then assessed in relation to the intervention and nonintervention scenarios. These metrics criteria are assessed over a scale from 0 (no impact) to 1 (severe impact). Criticisms of DPD have been made that are similar to those made in relation to ABC (Green et al. 2016), because the baseline probability of decline can be largely determined by the choice of demographic parameters, which may be subject to significant uncertainty.;Population models can be used to estimate the size, or growth rate, of a population through time both with and without the impact of a management intervention. The metric is then assessed in relation to either the counterfactual of the impacted to unimpacted population size (CIUn) or growth rate (CIU). These counterfactuals could be estimated at a fixed point in time or at a series of intervals