BLUE Piling is a relatively new approach for driving large offshore piles, which was invented by Fistuca BV, a spinoff from Eindhoven University of Technology, and is now being further developed by IHC IQIP. Instead of a hydraulically operated steel anvil, the BLUE Hammer utilises the acceleration and weight of a massive water column, which is contained in a steel housing. The first generation BLUE Hammer consists of an expandable combustion chamber that is placed underneath the water column. By combusting a gas mixture, the gas volume expands and the water column is accelerated upwards while the downward force drives the pile into the seabed. By falling back into its original position, the water column creates a second blow on the pile. After the release of the exhaust gases, the cycle is repeated (Figure 7.2). Tests with the BLUE 25M Hammer, a fullscale prototype, demonstrated that the blow of a BLUE Hammer differs substantially from that of a hydraulic hammer, as it delivers a blow with a comparatively long duration of typically more than 100 ms. This is much longer than the contact times of hydraulic pile drivers, which range around 4 ms. The gradually increasing and decreasing impact force of BLUE Hammers significantly reduces the acceleration levels inside the monopile, which, in turn, reduces the vibrations and thereby the level of underwater noise. The Netherlands Organisation for Applied Scientific Research (TNO) conducted measurements in a confined harbour area during pile driving with a BLUE Piling machine on a test pile at refusal (Jansen  de Jong 2016, unpublished). The measured sound exposure levels (SELs), under selected piling conditions at about 400 m distance in a water depth of 24 m, ranged between 140 and 162 dB re 1 Pa2 s (Lp,0pk 160186 dB re 1 Pa2). The corresponding energies transmitted to the pile in single strikes ranged from 4,000 to 7,500 kJ. Most of the acoustic energy was concentrated in the midfrequency range from 250 Hz to 1 kHz. The recorded noise levels are lower than typical SELs of piling sequences for conventional hydraulic hammers operated with energies up to 1,000 kJ (165175 dB re 1 Pa2 s at 750 m range and valid for water depths of 2530 m). The TNO study thus suggests that BLUE Piling is more silent than conventional impact piledriving (Jansen  de Jong 2016, unpublished). Modellingindicates that the technology has the potential to reduce the SEL by more than 20 dB compared to hydraulic impact piledriving and to keep the SEL below the noise threshold criterion which has been established in Germany (Trimoreau  SmidtLuetzen 2017, unpublished see Concluding remarks, below). A first fullscale prototype of the BLUE Hammer, the BLUE 25M, was designed to drive stateoftheart monopiles with diameters up to 10 m. After an inshore test at Rotterdam Maasvlakte, a fullscale offshore test in the Dutch part of the North Sea was executed in mid2018 (Figure 7.3). The tests, supported by the Carbon Trusts Offshore Wind Accelerator (OWA) initiative (Carbon Trust 2018a 2018b), revealed that further adjustments need to be made before BLUE Piling technology can be commercially used. It can be expected that the design and working principle of the next generation BLUE Hammer will differ from the prototype tested in 2018.;Figure 7.2 Working principle (piling sequence) of the BLUE 25M, a BLUE Hammer prototype with internal combustion chamber. (Jasper Winkes, Fistuca BV)