Telemetry, alongside other data sets, offers the potential to investigate such finescale predatorprey interactions and relationships of marine birds with their environment. At the simplest level, telemetry can identify whether birds may be using wind farms and offshore structures, which is important to understand, particularly for birds originating from nearby protectedbreeding locations. However, with the advent of advanced modelling techniques (see Box 4.4) it is now possible to consider many aspects of a marine birds life in holistic modelling approaches, such as diet, foraging behaviour, and demography and vital rates (McDonald et al. 2012 WarwickEvans et al. 2017). As also noted in Box 4.4, telemetry methods can be used together with other data sets to build up a picture of trophic linkages, throughout all phases of windfarm development. Understanding the fundamental (baseline) reasons for marine species utilising offshore areas as well as the effects that wind farms may have is therefore crucial. Developing further processbased modelling approaches, identifying mechanistic links for different species, may also allow the effects of wind farms on prey and, in turn, on marine birds to be better predicted in the future.;The first application of telemetry upon a marine bird to judge potential effects of an OWF appears to be the study by Perrow et al. (2006) on Little Terns at Scroby Sands. Since then, there has been a rapid increase in the scope and diversity of telemetry and tracking studies of marine birds to address a number of key issues surrounding the interactions between marine birds and OWFs. These run right through the phases of windfarm impact assessment, from initial screening and scoping of species and sites through to postconsent monitoring and continued assessment for constructed wind farms.;At the outset, the assessment of species foraging ranges and connectivity using telemetry during the breeding season is an important first step in identifying potential conflict between protected populations of marine birds and proposed developments (Thaxter et al. 2012). Spatial locations of birds around the colony can then be used to identify key areas of habitat use. However, telemetry can provide further insight into the ecology of a species, including behaviour (Weimerskirch et al. 2005), physiology (Bevan et al. 1997), diet (Watanuki et al. 2008), environmental relationships (Skov et al. 2008) and predatorprey interactions