Altogether, vesselbased detector surveys recorded ten bat species migrating over or foraging in Kalmar Sound. While most bats simply passed by the ships, some bats started to circle and investigate the vessel as soon as it was encountered. Bats were also observed to forage on insects that had drifted from shore. Nonmigrating species Daubentons Bat Myotis daubentonii and Pond Bat M. dasycneme were also observed to occur offshore. Thermal imaging recordings of bats, such as N. noctula and P. nathusii,revealed flight heights of 1040 m abovethe sea surface, although they would frequently change elevations and fly around the nacelle and rotor blades when they encountered wind turbines. Nyctalus noctula, in particular, showed a typical investigative behaviour when approaching a nacelle, which suggested that it was searching for roost possibilities.;Automated bat detector systems recorded bats at all offshore wind turbines. Although the mean number of bats recorded by automated bat detector systems was low compared to radar observations, there were occasionally nights of higher numbers of detector recordings on the turbine platforms. At Ytre Stengrund, 79 bat passes of 10 species (5 wind turbines, total 49 hours) were documented, while only 20 bat passes of 6 species (7 wind turbines, total 60.5 hours) were recorded at Utgrunden in 2006. The main species were N. noctula and Particoloured Bat Vespertilio murinus, but also P. nathusii and P. pygmaeus and more rarely M. dasycneme.;A total of 2,553 bats were observed with radar during 37.5 hours on Kalmar Sound in 2006. All bats checked by manual detector identification belonged to N. noctula. Although smaller bat species were also observed during these sea trips, they were not identified by radar. Seventysix per cent of all observed N. noctula flew at wind speeds up to 2.5 ms, but a few were found flying up to 9 ms. Although most bats appeared to migrate, radar data indicated that N. noctula went out to sea for foraging and then returned to the same point at land.;In conclusion, a variety of bats, including both migratory and presumably nonmigratory species, have been documented offshore. Moreover, bats have been observed foraging at sea while migrating. Upon encountering wind turbines, bats were also frequently observed investigating and foraging around the nacelle and rotor blades, suggesting a possible attraction behaviour, which renders collisions of bats at offshore wind turbines possible.