Good marine environmental status focuses on pressure and impacts such as nutrient enrichment and contamination by hazardous substances that are less directly influenced by the deployment of offshore wind energy. However, Annex III also lists to some degree more OWFprone pressures and impacts, such as physical loss of habitat (i.e. the minor fractions of original habitat lost under permanent construction) and disturbances as a result of underwater noise, or biological disturbance following colonisation or exclusion. The EUs Decision on Good Environmental Status (European Commission 2017a) adds criteria and methodological standards for the monitoring and assessment of predominant pressures and impacts, as for underwater noise in descriptor 11 Member States shall establish threshold values for  the spatial distribution, temporal extent, and levels of anthropogenic impulsivesound sources to not exceed levels that adversely affect populations of marine animals (D11C1  Primary criteria European Commission 2017a). Furthermore, the population abundance of relevant species (covering also OWFrelevant species, e.g. cetaceans and divers) shall not become adversely affected due to anthropogenic pressures, such that its longterm viability is ensured (D1C2  Primary criteria European Commission 2017a).;Farreaching noise reduction strategies to protect marine mammals, especially the Harbour Porpoise (Figure 9.7) have been pursued, specifically in terms of OWF piledriving effects (see Thomsen amp Verfu, Chapter 7). The Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) has published a noisemitigation strategy for the German North Sea, which foresees the establishment of a noisemitigation zone from September to April. To avoid populationlevel disturbance of Harbour Porpoise, the noiseprotection strategy sets a threshold for the extent of piledriving affected areas in the EEZ. This states that at any one time, a maximum 10 of the North Sea EEZ can be affected by defined noise levels radiating from OWF under construction (BMU 2013 Bellmann et al. 2017). Standard threshold values for noise during OWF construction were introduced in 2003 on advice from the Federal Environment Agency (UBA). Based on new research, the recommended thresholds (dual criteria) have been part of OWF licensing since 2008 (UBA 2008). The incidental provision number 14 of the BSH for German OWFs thus requires a noisemitigation concept, which is that it must be ensured that the sound exposure level (SEL) does not exceed 160 dB re 1 Pa2 s and the peak level (Lpeak) does not exceed 190 dB re 1 Pa at a distance of 750 m from the construction site (BSH 2013a). Given the common European framework, further similar approaches ensuring uniformity across member states may be an upcoming issue. Merchant et al. (2018) propose a methodology for marine noise management to map and quantify risk at the population level. By defining riskbased noiseexposure indicators, the noise pollution exposure to populations can be quantified and managed (Merchant et al. 2018). Merchant et al. (2018) argue that noise could be integrated in assessments of cumulative effects as a stressor, as the