The availability bias is sometimes quantified by investigating the behaviour of a species to determine how much time it spends at the surface (or close to the surface). For example, for Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena, several studies have recorded breathing rates from observations (Barlow et al. 1988) or have used diving data obtained fromtagged animals (Westgate et al. 1995 Teilmann et al. 2013) to obtain a value of availability. This value has then been applied to the collected survey data (Thomson et al. 2012). Caution must be exercised, however, when applying this correction factor to data sets collected elsewhere. Behaviour of animals, and thus the time they spend at the surface, is likely to vary between different areas, weather conditions or seasons. Therefore, a correction factor for the proportion of time an animal is available at the surface may not be applicable in general.;Perception and availability bias can also be estimated at the same time. One example of this is from Laake et al. (1997), who tracked porpoise sightings from land at the same time as an aerial survey was underway overhead. This provided data on the availability of the porpoises to the aerial observers as well as how many were missed by the observers. However, this approach requires the species or population of interest to be located close to a shore that has a suitably high vantage point, which is not applicable to most study areas. For Harbour Porpoise, the circleback or racetrack method was specifically developed for aerial surveys (Hiby  Lovell 1998 Hiby 1999). Originally, this method was applied using two aircraft flying in tandem. Currently, the survey aircraft circles back over a section of the transect line after an initial sighting and resamples it after a timelag of about 3 minutes. This allows an estimate to be made of the resightability rate of an animal that is known to be present and visible during the first pass, but may not be visible to or may be missed by the observer on the second pass. The analysis also takes additional parameters into account, such as the swimming speed of the animals. In general, 50100 racetracks are needed to determine a reliable g(0) for a particular survey. For boatbased surveys, independent observations can be made visually or acoustically, and are often referred to as dual or double platform techniques. For visual dualplatform surveys, the primary observation team searches with the naked eye close to the vessel, while a secondary tracker team uses highpowered binoculars to search the transect line much farther in front of