In the absence of before data (for whatever reason), it is also possible to analyse the gradient of changing seabird densities in relation to distance to the wind farm to infer a windfarm impact (Welcker  Nehls 2016), although any reference to baseline conditions will clearly help with the interpretation of the findings (Webb et al. 2017). When analysing largescale effects extending 10 km or farther, such as observed at Lincs wind farm in the UK (Box 3.2), it is likely that environmental gradients such as water depth or salinity in estuarine environments will interact with windfarmeffects, and it becomes important to model seabird distribution in relation to these factors (Heinnen et al. 2017).;It is important to note that even with good survey design, detecting effects on the distribution of seabirds is not an easy task as a result of their generally patchy nature leading to high variance around mean values and a high proportion of zero values leading to overdispersion of data. As a result, increasingly sophisticated modelling techniques are now being used to tease out the effects of wind farms relative to other explanatory variables (Box 3.2). Vanermen  Steinen (2019) provide some further insight into suitable data processing and modelling.;The ESAS method for surveying seabirds from boats consists of a scan by two surveyors in a 90 arc from the bow to either the port or starboard side of the ship, whichever has the better viewing conditions for detecting sitting and flying birds. However, some survey teams operate a strip transect on both sides of the ship over 180, especially in areas of low seabird density, because low encounter rates of birds at sea can result in low precision of the abundance estimates derived from the surveys. Moreover, a similar issue can occur where birds occur in infrequent groups and surveying a larger area may help to reduce variation around the mean.;The scan is carried out primarily by the naked eye, but with the additional support of binoculars on occasion, especially where seaduck and divers (loons) (Gaviidae) are known to be present. Those birds that occur within a 300 m wide strip parallel to the transect line within that arc are recorded as being in transect using different methods according to whether they are recorded as flying or sitting on the sea (Figure 3.4). All sitting birds are recorded as being in transect, whereas those flying birds that occur within the limits of a defined zone in the 300 m strip at the time of a snapshot count are recorded as being in transect. A snapshot count fixing the bird in time and space is designed to compensate for the slow speed of the survey platform relative to the bird and allow calculation of density, as otherwise simply recording all birds seen