Chaouachi et al. (2017) used a multicriteria approach to help identify appropriate areas for OWFs in relation to the Baltic States in Europe.;More detailed sensitivity mapping may then consider an individual bird species vulnerability to potential negative effects of OWFs stemming from a wide range of speciesspecific factors, including flight behaviour (e.g. tendency to flock and manoeuvrability), site fidelity, avoidance responses, habitat preferences and conservation status. Such analyses have been carried out both onshore and offshore in a number of countries, including Germany (Garthe  Hppop 2004), Scotland (Bright et al. 2008), Denmark (Desholm 2009), England (Bright et al. 2009 Bradbury et al. 2014), Ireland (McGuinness et al. 2015) and the USA (Kelsey et al. 2018 American Bird Conservancy 2019).;The SeaMast tool developed by Bradbury et al. (2014) produced sensitivity maps for a range of seabird species both in isolation and in combination (see Figure 3.1 in Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) in English waters to a maximum of 200 nautical miles or the territorial water boundary with a neighbouring country. SeaMast used data from boatbased and aerial surveys (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) spanning the period 19792012, coupled with species sensitivity values for seabirds developed by Garthe  Hppop (2004) and expanded by Furness  Wade (2012) and Furness et al. (2013a). As well as identifying priority areas for seabirds, the intention of the tool was to inform marine spatial planning (see Kppel et al., Chapter 9) and EIA in relation to a particular development, with the further possibility that it would operate as a sense check of site specific data. A key feature of the tool is that the base maps may be readily updated as more data become available and incorporated into the different data layers. It should be noted, however, that SeaMast was unable to inform development in the first three Rounds of windfarm development in the UK as it was developed after these had been planned, although it remains available for future development rounds.