Collision risk is seen as a key consenting risk in relation to offshore wind farms. As part of the Environmental Impact Assessment process, the potential collision risk to seabird populations must be estimated both at the level of the individual project and at a cumulative level across all projects. Having assessed collision risk in terms of the total number of birds likely to be affected, these numbers must then be put in the context of the populations concerned. Models are central to this process, from the collision risk models used to assess risk to the population models used to assess the consequences of an impact at a colony level. In this chapter, the process by which collision risk is assessed using a collision risk model is described, the results of which are then used in conjunction with a population model to assess the likely population level consequences of any collisions. As with any models, both the collision risk models and the population models are simplifications of reality and, as a result, often subject to significant uncertainty. The types of model available to practitioners are outlined and the limitations associated with them are discussed. As the number of operational wind farms increases, assessing the cumulative effect of multiple projects becomes a more pressing concern. However, thisremains a challenge as a result of the difficulty in defining the processes acting on the population(s) concerned and, the challenges associated with combining lethal and sublethal impacts from multiple sources. While it is clearly desirable that the models used more accurately reflect biological reality, it is important to ensure that rigorous evidence is available to support any of the assumptions that are made.;The renewable energy sector has undergone rapid expansion as part of measures to combat anthropogenic climate change (Obama 2017). However, while providing clean energy, renewable energy schemes can still present a number of risks to biodiversity and the environment, resulting in the need for an appropriate regimen of environmental impact assessment (Gibson et al. 2017). Wind power and, in particular, offshore wind power is likely to play a key role in meeting targets for renewable energy growth in coming years (Toke 2011). Collisions between birds and turbine blades have long been identified as one of the key environmental impacts of wind farms (Drewitt  Langston 2006 de Lucas  Perrow 2017) and as a result of a number of highprofile incidents and studies (e.g. de Lucas et al. 2008 Smallwood  Thelander 2008 Stienen et al. 2008 Dahl et al. 2012 Katzner et al. 2017), they are one of the impacts that attracts greatest public attention. Despite this, there are relatively few studies with the specific aim of documenting bird collisions in the offshore environment (King 2019). Collecting data to inform collision estimates in the offshore environment is extremely challenging owing to technical limitations (Collier et al. 2011). The authors are aware of only four studies (Pettersson 2005 Desholm 2006 Newton  Little 2009 Skov et al. 2018) that have recorded collisions of birds in the offshore environment.