The Motus Wildlife Tracking System is a research approach established by Bird Studies Canada in partnership with Acadia University, among others, and involves development of an international, collaborative radiotracking network (Taylor et al. 2017). The programme network allows individual researchers to study individual movements of small birds, bats and larger insects via a direct, open source access to coordinated automated radiotelemetry arrays. Spatially deployed automated receivers are used in conjunction withindividually digitally coded NanoTags (a tradename from Lotek Wireless), allowing thousands of individuals to be tracked continuously and simultaneously across broad regional landscapes. Six tag models are available, with the smallest model (1153 mm LWH) weighing 0.29 g and the largest one (2397 mm) 2.6 g. Depending on burst interval and tag model, the manufacturerspecified range of operational tag lifetime varies between 10 and 928 days (Lotek Wireless Inc. 2018). The system allows tracking of a single radiofrequency across multiple receiving stations, and then systematically coordinates, disseminates and archives detections and associated metadata in a central repository. Over 350 receiving stations are active and more than 9,000 individuals of over 87 species of birds, bats and insects have been tracked (Taylor et al. 2017). More than 250 million date and timestamped animal detections have been recorded since the inception of the programme in 2012 (Taylor et al. 2017). The data set includes detections of individuals during all phases of the annual cycle (breeding, migration and nonbreeding). The research value of the network will continue to grow as spatial coverage of stations and number of partners and collaborators increases, offering a framework for global collaboration and coordinated approach to better understand animal movements over a broad scale (Loring 2014 Crysler et al. 2016 Loring et al. 2016 Peterson et al. 2016 Taylor et al. 2017).;The metaanalysis by Bodey et al. (2018) indicates that tags exceeding 1 of bird body mass may already negatively affect bird survival and reproduction. Besides the risks associated with excess load, the tag attachment mode may also have an impact on bird survival. Herein, the use of harnesses, which is the most frequently applied method, significantly increased bird mortality (Bodey et al. 2018). Furthermore, inappropriate placement of reasonably weighted devices on animal bodies may have detrimental consequences such as excessive energy expenditure from modified flight patterns, as in Northern Gannet Morus bassanus (Vandenabeele et al. 2014). In addition, target positioning accuracy