Cage or pot fishing is another traditional monitoring method with a long history that can be used for population studies, including telemetry of macrocrustaceans and fish as well as impact assessments. Nedwell et al. (2003b) used cage fishing for experimental noise studies in which they investigated behaviouralchanges in Brown Trout Salmo trutta exposed to pile driving and construction noise of a harbour terminal. A similar methodology can be applied to behavioural studies around offshore wind power constructions. The use of fishing cages to monitor macrocrustacean and fish species and communities is an effective, nondestructive method and can be used on most kinds of seabeds. One disadvantage is the limited sizes of the cages, since they are designed to be used for commercial fishing, thus limiting the diversity of sizes and species captured.;Small beam trawls (i.e. 2 m width) are often used to semi quantitatively survey epifauna species abundance and diversity (Frauenheim et al. 1989). Catching efficiency is dependent on sediment characteristics but also largely on the behaviour of the species, such as burying capacity and swimming speed. In a study where three trawls were towed after each other, the catching efficiency varied from 51 in the Hermit Crab Pagurus bernhardus to 9 in the both burying and swimming crab Liocarcinus holsatus (Reiss et al. 2006).;An alternative method for sampling benthic fish alongside epifauna is to use video observations (Glover et al. 2010). Offshore data collection using ROVs (see Monitoring epifouling on the turbine foundations and scour protection, above) (Figure 1.6) may be expensive, and stationary video, which has been used extensively in reef monitoring in Australia (Harvey et al. 2013), may be used instead. With video observations, it is possible to sample not only relative abundance but also behavioural traits, since observations sustained over time can be made. As turbines emit lowfrequency noise during operation, this could initiate changes in behaviour among different animal groups that are particularly interesting to monitor (Hammar 2014). With the use of stereovideo methodology, where two synchronised cameras simultaneously record the same object, video observations can generate accurate quantitative measurements of size, swimming speed and distance to fixed objects such as the foundations (Harvey et al. 2001 Watson et al. 2005 Hammar et al. 2015). Stereovideo methodology has hitherto not been used in windfarm monitoring, but experiences from tidal power impact studies indicate that the method has great potential (Hammar et al. 2013). To obtain nonbiased data, the