Irrespective of foundation type, the footprint of a turbine removes one type of habitat and replaces it with another. To compensate, a concrete gravity foundation can be cast in order to enhance the surface shape to maximise the availability of habitats for decapods such as crabs and lobsters, for example (Langhamer  Wilhelmsson 2009). In cases where a specifichabitat, such as Zostera meadows, has been replaced or damaged, compensatory introduction of new Zostera meadows could be undertaken in a suitable area nearby.;This chapter is based on both monitoring reports and peerreviewed scientific literature, with the intention of reviewing and outlining the status and applications of several different monitoring methods, focusing on fish and marine invertebrates. The main contributions are reported from the regulatory and sciencedriven environmental monitoring programmes in northwest European waters, including Belgium (Degraer 2012), the Netherlands (Lindeboom et al. 2011 2015), Sweden (Bergstrm et al. 2013a, 2013b), Denmark (Stenberg et al. 2011), Germany (BSH  BMU 2014) and the UK (Huddleston 2010 MMO 2014). These countries have the longest experience in environmental impact assessments and monitoring of offshore wind power installations. Academic research on ecological and environmental effects related to offshore wind power has so far mostly been carried out by Denmark, Germany, the UK and Sweden. Nevertheless, this research reflects the state of the art for wind power monitoring in general and includes theoretical considerations for offshore wind development in developing markets in other parts of the world, such as the USA and Japan (Jameson et al. 2019).;Unfortunately, many of the monitoring programmes developed at existing OWFs have not been planned adequately. Some surveys may be limited in the development of survey methods while others may have focused on singlespecies systems. In a review of monitoring programmes for offshore wind projects in Europe, only 33 of the programmes had conducted a power analysis and in only 10 was the study based on a random sampling design (Enhus et al. 2017). Therefore, they may not have been able to deliver results as valuable as was intended, such as on effects on marine communities andor ecosystems, or data that can be used in a wider context (MMO 2014). Nevertheless, there have been many studies on many different species and possible windfarm induced stressors