Another pending question is to what degree we might apply the full set of zoning categories in spatial planning as is undertaken in terrestrial planning, especially in terms of conservation. That is, might we not only identify possible nogo areas for OWFs, but alsouse a tiered approach in terms of designated sites during decision making? In a similar way to onshore, can we set up MSP zoning categories that allow for OWFs to some degree, with the proviso of the requirement for specific mitigation measures, such as shutdown on demand in peak times of bird or even bat migration over the sea? (see Harwood amp Perrow, Chapter 8).;With regard to the relevant scales of MSP and SEA, several sensitivity approaches have been proposed, especially for seabirds, such as SeaMaST (Bradbury et al. 2014), be they towards collision risks with OWFs (King 2019) or displacement (Vanermen amp Stienen 2019). Furthermore, it remains to be seen whether multicriteria (decision) assessments (MCA or MCDA) can be applied widely in MSP, with its substantially overlaying marine use and conservation challenges. Will relevant MC(D)A (e.g. Hanssen et al. 2018), analytic hierarchy process or other decision support approaches and tools in scholarly work (e.g. for the selection of hybrid OWF and wave energy systems in Greece Vasileiou et al. 2017) ever make it into practice? Different MC(D)A and analytic hierarchy processes have been combined with GIS applications primarily for siting onshore wind energy (Vasileiou et al. 2017). Stelzenmller et al. (2010 2011) combined GIS and a Bayesian belief network for marine planning purposes. They found it to be a useful tool to map and assess uncertaintyrelated changes in management measures as well as the risk of spatial management options. While the zoning challenges at hand seem quite tangible (Stelzenmller et al. 2013, Figure 1), participatory planning processes (e.g. via public participation GIS) (StricklandMunro et al. 2016) or powerdriven governance deformations may substantially modify rationalism in the planning processes.;It has become clear that OWF grid connections were not considered in the same intensity as was planned for the OWFs themselves, except for the US MidAtlantic MSP plan (Ldeke et al. 2012), where (perhaps unsurprisingly) the transmission grid was considered as a planning backbone. In 2017, a paradigm shift in the