In marine spatial planning (MSP), both energy infrastructure and marine conservation are likely to be considered as activities that must be allocated space in the marine environment. A traditional view of the incombination effect ofone use compared to another is that this is likely to lead to risks and negative consequences for the environment (e.g. Portman 2014 Stelzenmller et al. 2018). However, there could be some advantages to considering Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) together with OWFs. For example, research that suggests that energy infrastructure can contribute in some ways to marine conservation by providing additional areas that are closed to damaging activities such as destructive trawling by fisheries (Christie et al. 2014 Ashley et al. 2018 Dannheim et al. 2019). If this can be true even for coastal coalfired power plants, as suggested by Shabtay et al. (2017, 2018), then it seems that an even better case can be made for OWFs that both are less intrusive to the marine environment and have clear benefits for marine biodiversity, including desirable predatory fish (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill amp Wilhelmsson 2019). In addition, whereas many power plants are situated close to shore, OWFs are often purposely situated farther from shore to exploit good windforpower conditions. This means that OWFs farther offshore can serve as closed (or semiclosed) areas that act as buffers, or as refugia for a variety of marine life (Ban et al. 2016) promote the extension of MPAs farther out at sea and, in particular, enhance the diversity, range and geographic spread of the MPA network.;Moreover, there should be a strong connection between MPAs and OWFs because (1) MPAs are limited in their ability to counteract consequences of climate change, and (2) OWFs mitigate climate change. This means that in terms of progressing towards the Sustainable Development Goals 13 (Climate Action) and 14 (Life Below Water), potential positive synergies should also be considered (Simard et al. 2016). This is relatively new thinking, but provides an approach that can be used readily within the framework of MSP, which already provides the means of looking at myriad uses together, especially when compatibility matrices are used in the process. Such a tool allows for consideration of compatibility as well as conflicts. As for wildlife impacts, there needs to be much more integrated ecosystembased research (Perrow 2019), whereby ecological functioning and various