All objects detected during the review phase are assessed by expert ornithologists and marine mammologists who classify these to the lowest taxonomic order possible, assigning these to both species group and, where possible, to species. Each identification is given a confidence rating of possible, probable or definite, equivalent to low, medium or high confidence. Additional details are recorded at this stage, where possible, of age, sex, behaviourand direction of travel. As with the review stage, 20 of all objects are subjected to a random blind audit by the most experienced identification team members and more than 10 disagreement will result in reidentification of the species that caused the disagreement by a third member who adjudicates on any disagreements. A regular assessment (every 500 frames), of the sea conditions is made from the video footage by members of the identification team, recording the sea state according to the Douglas sea scale (Met Office 2016), the amount of sun glare, the water turbidity and the air clarity. The last three are assessed on a fourpoint scale and all are referenced to a set of standard images to remove subjectivity of the assessment.;Identification rates differ between species groups. As a mean of 50 surveys conducted in the German North Sea and the Baltic Sea, about 90 of all detected birds were determined to species level. Identification rates are obviously high for large birds, such as Northern Gannet (Figure 3.13) and Northern Fulmar Fulmarus glacialis, and lower for smaller and less conspicuous birds, such as grebes and waders (Table 3.2). Overall identification rates will thus differ between areas in relation to the species composition. The low identification rate for tern species results from the fact that Arctic Tern Sterna paradisaea and Common Tern Sterna hirundo could not be separated, while the discrimination of Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis from the smaller tern species is relatively straightforward. It needs to be noted that the identification rate of divers and auks is high, which is an important improvement over visual aerial surveys for which separating Common Guillemot Uria aalge and Razorbill Alca torda, the predominant auk species in the northwest European surveys, is rarely possible. In terms of identification, digital video surveys offer marked advantages against observer surveys for three reasons (1) more time can be spent on identifying the bird on the screen compared to observer flights, 2) the bird can be viewed from different angles as an individual is usually present in at least five frames, and 3) a tool permits precise measurement of the birds size, which is an important criterion for similar species such as European Herring Gull Larus argentatus and Common Gull Larus canus.