Appreciating the complexity of movements of marine birds is important when evaluating the potential for specific windfarm effects, such as collision (see Informing collision risk modelling,below), to have impacts on given populations. For example, any variability in the flyways of migratory waterbirds may lead to considerable differences in likely predicted interactions with wind farms (Griffin et al. 2016) (Box 4.5). Studies on seabirds such as Northern Gannets (Hamer et al. 2007 Langston et al. 2013), Lesser Blackbacked Gulls (Thaxter et al. 2015) (Box 4.3) and European Shags Phalacrocorax aristotelis (Bogdanova et al. 2014) have highlighted the variability of movements of these species from key colonies between years, and thus the implications of potential interactions with OWF areas. In the case of Lesser Blackbacked Gulls, which have the potential to use both marine and terrestrial environments, the pattern of use of wind farms by birds from Orford Ness was found to vary considerably, both within the breeding season and between years (Box 4.3) (Thaxter et al. 2015). Great Skua Stercorarius skua at Foula and Hoy in northern Scotland also showed variation in the use of proposed and consented OWFs, which was greater after breeding had finished and birds made much wider movements (Wade et al. 2014).;In general, the use of the area surrounding one breeding colony of a particular species may be very different from the use around another colony, linked to densitydependent competition for resources (Wakefield et al. 2013) as well as differences in marine systems and abundance and distribution of particular prey. Changing patterns of the use of different marine areas for a single colony may also be driven by variation in prey resources between years or across seasons (e.g. Hamer et al. 2007 WarwickEvans et al. 2016). For example, using geolocators to determine wintering areas of Atlantic Puffin Fratercula arctica originating from the Isle of May, in Scotland, Harris et al. (2010) suggested that a reduction in food availability may have led to changes in migration behaviour and increased mortality, with carryover effects of poor individual condition impacting breeding season productivity. This is aside from the potential effects of displacement from the proposed wind farm developments within the foraging range of breeding birds. Understanding the impact of prey resources on populationlevel processes would better allow assessment of the potential impacts of the effects associated with OWFs.