An alternative method for sampling benthic fish alongside epifauna is to use video observations (Glover et al. 2010). Offshore data collection using ROVs (see Monitoring epifouling on the turbine foundations and scour protection, above) (Figure 1.6) may be expensive, and stationary video, which has been used extensively in reef monitoring in Australia (Harvey et al. 2013), may be used instead. With video observations, it is possible to sample not only relative abundance but also behavioural traits, since observations sustained over time can be made. As turbines emit lowfrequency noise during operation, this could initiate changes in behaviour among different animal groups that are particularly interesting to monitor (Hammar 2014). With the use of stereovideo methodology, where two synchronised cameras simultaneously record the same object, video observations can generate accurate quantitative measurements of size, swimming speed and distance to fixed objects such as the foundations (Harvey et al. 2001 Watson et al. 2005 Hammar et al. 2015). Stereovideo methodology has hitherto not been used in windfarm monitoring, but experiences from tidal power impact studies indicate that the method has great potential (Hammar et al. 2013). To obtain nonbiased data, thecamera systems should be used remotely (i.e. not carried by divers). The drawback with videobased surveys is the extensive time required for analysis.;Gillnet fishing, a method commonly applied in commercial fisheries, may be used to monitor fish in the water column (see Monitoring benthic and demersal fish, above). Multimesh nets encompassing all sizes of fish are typically used to detail fish abundance, fish communities and diversity before installation and during operation of the wind farm. Identical methods and sampling efforts should be applied over several years both before and after construction. At Horns Rev in Denmark, additional surveys were conducted by scuba divers around the turbines to measure fish abundance in relation to distance from the turbine (Leonhard et al. 2011). The longterm surveys using gill nets recorded a higher diversity of fish in the wind farm compared to a control site after construction, with Whiting Merlangius merlangus, Dab Limanda limanda and sandeels Ammodytes spp. being the most abundant species. Fish community patterns did, however, show a high spatial and temporal variability in distribution and occurrence. Despite the use of multiple mesh sizes, gillnet fishing is known for its selectivity towards larger individuals, thus leading to an underestimation of small individuals.;Pelagic fish abundance has also been monitored using hydroacoustic methods in combination with pelagic trawls for species determination and ground proofing (Krgefsky 2014). At the German offshore wind energy test site Alpha Ventus, such methods indicated lower abundances of pelagic fish during the construction of the wind farm, but no significant impact on the pelagic fish community during the operational phase (Krgefsky 2014). Monitoring in the operational phase also indicates and helps researchers to evaluate the effects of notake zones, as commercial trawl fisheries may be prevented or at restricted in their operations after the construction of the site, particularly from the perspective of safety over the risk of snagging cables or other structures.