The percentage of time in flight of different species has been reviewed in relation to OWFs (Garthe  Hppop 2004 Furness et al. 2013) because the higher the proportion of time that a species spends in flight, the greater will be its likely risk of collision (Band 2012 A.Cook et al. 2012). The extent of nocturnal flight activity also increases the degree of exposure to collision risk, although information on nocturnal activity is lacking for many species. It has been suggested that collision risk may be considerably increased in low light visibility (Garthe  Hppop 2004 Furness et al. 2013). Telemetry can provide data on flight activity and time budgets of marine birds throughout the day and night (Thaxter et al. 2010). The time spent in flight can be approximated for a given species simply by considering the minimum speeds thought to possibleallowing sustained powered flight (e.g. ShamounBaranes et al. 2011). Movement modelling approaches, or using information from multiaxial accelerometer sensors (ShamounBaranes et al. 2016) (Box 4.4 see review by Brown et al. 2013), can build up a more detailed spatial picture of movement and behaviour. Such information can be summarised across individual birds for specific wind farms, which can, in turn, feed into collision risk modelling (Cleasby et al. 2015).;Box 4.6 outlines how information on the relative time spent at sea, relative use of a wind farm, and time spent at risk height generated during an radiotelemetry study of Little Tern Sternula albifrons (Perrow et al. 2006) was incorporated into an alternative version of the Band model (Band et al. 2007), originally derived for use in onshore studies for birds making less predictable movements that is, without constant flux. This model, based on time spent in the risk window to generate a transit rate for use within the model, was presented as being appropriate for hunting raptors, which can share similar flight characteristics with foraging seabirds. In the case of Little Terns, the study proved useful in scoping the likely number of birds colliding with turbines at Scroby Sands.;Martin R. Perrow, Andrew J.P. Harwood  Eleanor R. Skeate;The Scroby Sands wind farm, comprised of 30 2 kV Vestas V80 turbines, was installed between October 2003 and August 2004 approximately 23 km east of North Denes, part of the only SPA designated solely for Little Tern Sternula albifrons in the UK. At that time, the colony was the UKs largest, averaging 188 pairs from 1986 to 2006 representing more than 10 of the UK population. A 5year study was initiated from 2002 to 2006 inclusive to understand the interactions between breeding Little Terns and the wind farm. After 2 years of an intensive boatbased survey programme with six to eight surveys per season, there had been no records of Little Terns within the