Offshore windfarm (OWF) development began in European waters in the early 2000s and has been concentrated in the North and Baltic Seas (Figure 2.1). Starting in 2015, the number of developments increased dramatically, and total capacity had quadrupled by the end of 2017. At the beginning of 2018, more than 4,000 turbines were operational, comprising 92 wind farms located across the jurisdiction of 11 countries. The first installation of a floating wind farm was completed in Europe in 2018. China was the next economy to invest heavily in this industry, and its first wind farm came online in 2010. Today, China has some 260 turbines located across eight wind farms. The USAs first operational OWF came online at the end of 2016, with several additional largescale developments proposed for the US east coast to be initiated in 2019 (Massachusetts Clean Energy Center 2018). Taiwan will also see major windfarm development in the next decade, with its first demonstration projects coming online by 20192020 and an additional 11 projects having been approved in 2018. Globally, wind farms are located within 50 km of the shore and within the 50 m depth contour, although most are closer or in shallower water. As technology improves, however, locations farther offshore will become more feasible for example, developments proposed for European waters are some 200 km from land. Most wind farms comprise monopile structures, the installation of which, through pile driving, can cause considerable increases in underwater noise levels and therefore has the potential to detrimentally affect marine species. Marine mammals are particularly sensitive to underwater noise and have been a primaryfocus of Environmental Impact Assessments during windfarm construction. Initially, when development was small scale, potential impacts were considered localised in nature however, this is no longer the case. With the proliferation of OWFs in European waters, as well as the intention to develop widely in other areas, impacts could be large scale and far reaching, and the potential cumulative impact of multiple developments has yet to be assessed.;Figure 2.1 View of the Dutch Princess Amalia Wind Park (PAWP) and the Offshore Wind Park Egmond aan Zee (OWEZ) in the North Sea during an aerial survey for marine mammals. Wind farms are increasingly being installed in clusters, potentially affecting large areas of habitat. (Steve Geelhoed);In comparison to other taxa, marine mammal populations can be extremely challenging to monitor. As outlined by Nehls et al. (2019), the term marine mammals includes a diverse group, ranging from species that spend their entire life in the water, such as cetacea and sirenia, to some that spend part of their life cycle on land or ice, such as pinnipeds. Individuals are generally only visible when they come to the surface to breathe, or in the case of pinnipeds when they haul out on coasts, ice floes or sandbars. Perhaps most challenging of all, some species are distributed throughout large areas and migrate over long distances, requiring any comprehensive study to commission substantial survey