Attachment methods for tags on marine birds depend on the goals of the research, and thus its duration, and the species ecology and anatomy. For short periods during the breeding season, tags may be attached using a temporary fixture to feathers, for example by tesa tape or glue (Figure 4.1), which are lost when the bird moults (e.g. Hamer et al. 2007). For longer term attachments beyond the duration of the breeding season, other methods are needed. Some tags may require harnessing (e.g. Klaassen et al. 2012 Thaxter et al. 2015) and for larger species, some devices can be fitted using neck collars (e.g. Griffin et al. 2016). Surgical implantation of tags such as satellite platform terminal transmitter (PTTs) may be undertaken to study movement into the longer term (White etal. 2013 Speigel et al. 2017) and may be useful for diving species such as Redthroated Diver (Loon) Gavia stellata (Zydelis et al. 2018), as well as other tags such as those used for studying heart rate and energy expenditure (e.g. Bevan et al. 1997). Telemetry devices that are small and light enough, such as geolocators, may be attached on a legring (Guilford et al. 2009 Harris et al. 2010).;In all cases, it is important to recognise that the attachment method and the type of tag used could potentially impact animals and alter their behaviour and survival. A general rule is that together, tags and attachments should not weigh more than 3 of an animals body mass (Vandenabele et al. 2012). However, the situation is complicated by the numerous tag types and designs available (weight and shape of tags), the placement position on the animal, the type of attachment method, duration of attachment (e.g. short or long term), speciesspecific flight costs, and different interactions that species may have with their environment (Vandeabele et al. 2012 Thaxter et al. 2016). Inappropriate positioning of tags, for example, may affect balancing, travelling and foraging efficiency and energetic expenditure (Vandenabele et al. 2014). The tags themselves may also increase the wingloading (wing area to body mass ratio) of a bird, which may compromise flight ability or movement underwater (Vandenabele et al. 2012 Thaxter et al. 2016).;The most serious effects of tags and their attachments are through direct physical injury, a reduction in body condition, and compromised feeding ability leading to reduced nesting success and lower adult survival (Thaxter et al. 2016). However, a wide variation of species responses has been recorded, and consequently, there have been numerous reviews on this subject (e.g. Barron et al. 2010 Vandenabele et al. 2011). The picture is complicated further by the range of metrics often used to investigate the effects of tags and their attachments, which also vary between studies. Many shortterm studies during breeding, for example using tags attached through tape to feathers, have reported no effects on metrics such as foraging activity, breedingsite attendance or prey