(Forewind 2013). The adoption of the HiDef GEN II technology in November 2013 meant that considerably improved identification rates to species level were possible using digital aerial surveys, and out of over 96,000 animals detected, some 94.9 of these were classified to species level, similar to the rate of the boatbased surveys (Johnston et al. 2015).;Because offshore wind farming is a new and rapid development, balancing this thriving industry with the demands of nature conservation relies essentially on detecting and assessing the impacts of the early projects to inform planning processes for the later ones. Monitoring of seabird distribution thus provides essential information if continued once the wind farm has been consented for development. OWFs attract some species, such as Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo or gulls, especially Great Blackbacked Gull Larus marinus, which perch on platforms and foundations (Leopold et al. 2013 Dierschke et al. 2016 Vanermen  Stienen 2019), but also displace other species through the presence of the turbines and the service vessels operating to and from the wind farms (e.g. Dierschke et al. 2016 Petersen et al. 2014 Webb et al. 2017 Vanermen  Stienen 2019).;Postconsent monitoring is practised in most countries, although with different intensity. The size of survey areas, frequency of surveys, and the monitoring during construction and operation are usually similar to those of the characterisation study. This should enable a proper comparison of baseline conditions with post construction conditions and, if comparable reference areas are covered, a full beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) analysis. However, as some studies have shown rather large displacement effects on species such as Redthroated Diver (Loon) Gavia stellata (Box 3.2), a thorough BACI approach is hampered by the difficulty in finding a reference area (or areas) that is similar in depth, seabed conditions, tidal flow patterns, prey density, distance to a colony, and so on, to the impact area (but see Vanermen et al. 2015a). An alternative to BACI is a beforeafter gradient (BAG) design in which the wind farm is located in the middle of a much larger survey area