To some degree, survey techniques have been standardised to allow direct comparison and even joint analysis of seabird surveys between research groups and countries. However, the scope of seabird surveys in relation to offshore wind should extend beyond projects to enable monitoring of seabird numbers and populations at regional and transboundary scales. There are risks that project oriented monitoring schemes may miss cumulative impacts even on regional scales if they are not synchronised in time and space, and countries intending to develop OWFs are encouraged either tocoordinate the monitoring obligations of the industry or to launch survey programmes filling knowledge gaps. Survey programmes investigating impacts from OWFs should be combined with national obligations to monitor protected species and maintain the integrity of protected sites such as Natura 2000 areas designated under the European Habitats Directive (EU 1992), as well as monitoring of the effects of other industries in spite of the ongoing risks and impacts on seabirds associated with offshore oil exploration (Haney et al. 2014), there is a significant shortage of contemporary data on seabird distribution around many offshore oil facilities (Webb et al. unpublished report 2014).; In both characterisation and impact monitoring studies, the size of survey areas must extend beyond the area where seabirds may respond to the wind farm. In this respect, the size of survey areas will differ between projects and depend on the target species. Many studies of changes in the distribution of Redthroated Diver following windfarm construction suggest that effects can be found at up to 12 km from the wind turbines (Petersen et al. 2014 Welcker  Nehls 2016 Webb et al. 2017 Mendel et al. 2019). In contrast, 2 km appears to be the limit of Northern Gannet displacement at least at one wind farm (Webb et al. 2017). Clearly, it is important that sufficient data are collected in the region beyond the displacement distance for the key species in the project. In German OWF projects, aerial survey sites are required to extend at least 20 km beyond windfarm boundaries, covering at least 2,000 km2. This appears to be sufficient to cover the full gradient of seabird response to the wind farm, even for sensitive species, but is already at the limit of covering full response ranges of marine mammals to unmitigated pile driving noise (e.g. Brandt et al. 2011). Camphuysen et al. (2004) recommended that the study area should be six times the area of the development in the UK, but this recommendation has rarely been followed. Smaller study areas may be chosen in areas where surveys would extend beyond the suitable habitat of the species of interest, where these have restricted habitat choices.  In relation to large study areas and where the focus is on the