Masden  Cook (2016) reviewed avian CRMs for windenergy assessments and of the ten models that they included, only three (McAdam 2005 Desholm 2006 Band 2012) were designed with the offshore environment in mind. A key issue in relation to identifying the models that had been used in the assessment of collision risk inrelation to wind energy was found to be a lack of documentation surrounding them. This leads to concern in relation to the transparency of any assessments, increasing uncertainty in the consenting process.;In general, the models are based on the probability of a turbine blade occupying the same space as a bird during the time it takes the bird to pass through the rotorswept volume of the turbine. The probability of collision relies on information about the bird (wingspan, body length, flight speed, flight height, nocturnal flight activity) and the turbine (blade width, blade length, blade pitch, rotor speed, hub height, operational time) (Figure 5.1). The bird is assumed to be cruciform, although this may result in an underestimate of collision risk. The turbine blade is assumed to have a width (chord) and a pitch angle, but no thickness. The model only considers flights that are perpendicular to the turbine blades and that the effects of approaching the turbine at oblique angles will cancel each other out (Band 2012). It also considers only the moving rotor, excluding the stationary elements such as the tower, although other models such as Smales et al. (2013) include these.;Of the models identified, Band (2012) is the most commonly used, particularly in the UK, but also recommended for use elsewhere (e.g. Ministry of Economic Affairs 2015). The approach used by the Band model was originally devised for onshore wind farms and promoted as guidance by Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) but was later modified (Band et al. 2007) and then updated for OWFs (Band 2012) (Figure 5.2). A key change between the onshore and offshore models was the incorporation of density data in the offshore model. This reflects differences in data collection in the onshore and offshore environments. In the onshore environment, data on bird abundance are typically collected using vantagepoint surveys over a minimum of 72 hours, split between the breeding and nonbreeding seasons (SNH 2014). In contrast, such surveys are not possible in the offshore environment and data are collected from moving platforms. Initially, this was achieved through the use of monthly boat surveys following a standard methodology (Camphuysen et al. 2004). However, there has been a move towards collecting data using digital aerial surveys, which can