While it is easier to imagine a wind farm near to a breeding colony having clear connectivity and a potential definable impact on the colony, the impacts of developments are not likely to be restricted to breeding birds. During the breeding season, populations will also comprise juvenile and immature birds and other nonbreeding individuals. Outside the breeding season, all individuals including adults and nonadults have no centralplace foraging restriction and may disperse over wide areas, where they may interact with OWFs. Understanding the widerscale movements of nonbreeding birds when on migration and in overwintering areas in the context of connectivity with source colonies of interest, is also of importance from both the individual project level and the wider cumulative perspective.;Movements of adult birds during the nonbreeding season have traditionally been less well studied than adults during the breeding season. This is due to the numerous technical challenges such studies involve. Obvious issues include the safe attachment of a tag to provide information over a longer period when individuals may be away from a breeding location for many years (see also Box 4.2), and whether a species can be studied with current technology, given a finite battery life, the associated sizeweight restrictions of tags and how the data may be retrieved. These challenges are now being resolved for adult birds of some species outside the breeding season, and important nonbreeding areas and migration routes have been identified using geolocation (e.g. Guilford et al. 2009 Harris et al. 2010), GPSPTT devices (Klaassen et al. 2012 Spiegel et al. 2017) and GPS (Steinen et al. 2016 ShamounBaranes et al. 2017 Thaxter et al. 2018b) (Figure 4.6 in Box 4.3). The collation of such data through portals such as the Seabird Tracking Database (Birdlife International 2018) constitutes a powerful conservation tool. Longer term studies are now permitting longitudinal investigation into the repeatability of migration routes (Guilford et al. 2009).;Such longterm studies are now being used directly to assess overlaps with wind farms. Some species of waterfowl have been extensively tracked using GPSPTT tags between breeding and wintering grounds (Griffin et al. 2011 2016) (Figure 4.7 in Box 4.5).