Colorado, USA. Depending on the conditions, between 35 (normal operation) and 100 (idle rotation) of tennisball collisions were detected against background vibrations.;Predicting the probability of collisions of birds and bats with wind turbines is important for assessing the extent to which wind farms may affect their survival and ultimately population dynamics (e.g. Horswill et al. 2017). The assessment of the interaction of birds and bats with wind turbines is based on theoretical assumptions rather than on solid empirical evidence (Green et al. 2016). There are several reasons why this is the case above all, the limited technical possibilities to continuously record collisions. Additional reasons include (1) the infrequent and stochastic nature of collisions, (2) limited knowledge on environmental and biological input data for population models, and (3) formal requirement to predict site specific collision rates before the consenting and construction of a wind farm. Therefore, predictive CRMs are the method of choice for quantitatively estimating collision risk (see Cook  Masden, Chapter 5).;To the authors knowledge, none of the models accounts for the attraction of nightmigrating birds or bats (i.e. negative avoidance) by artificial light, which has been identified as the key factor influencing bird presence near the rotorswept zone (Hill et al. 2014). Moreover, already slightly inaccurate estimates of model parameters can strongly modify model output. Chamberlain et al. (2006) demonstrated that small changes in avoidance rate can lead to inflationary deviations in predicted mortality rates. As avoidance rates have rarely been empirically determined at different spatial scales during day and night or in relation to the operational status of a wind farm, indepth measurement of avoidanceattraction behaviour of birds and bats at different spatial scales seems mandatory to improve the output of CRMs. Furthermore, causal detachment of input values introduces considerable uncertainty to model output (Green et al. 2016). For example, many Environmental Impact Assessments merge sitespecific pre