CRM is thus limited not only by a lack of data on model inputs, but also by a lack of opportunities for model validation. CRMs are rarely validated, but where they have been, predictions from EIA often show only a weak relationship with observed effects and predictor variables. Ferrer et al. (2012) found no relationshipbetween variables predicting risk from EIAs and actual mortality, and only a weak relationship between mortality and species passage rates. Similarly, de Lucas et al. (2008) also found a weak relationship between abundance and recorded collisions for vultures, Gyps spp. In addition, Everaert (2014) found that large gulls were more likely to collide than smaller species. More specifically, opportunities for model validation are particularly limited for OWFs because bird mortality events are more difficult to document in the offshore environment as corpses do not remain in the area. In the terrestrial environment, the Bayesian framework employed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) model allows information to be updated. Although this is not validation, the input of empirical mortality data from corpse searches allows for the collision estimate to be refined. The use of camera systems offers a promising approach to detecting collisions (e.g. Skov et al. 2018) however, until the collection of mortality data from offshore developments becomes standard practice, Bayesian CRMs are unlikely to be a feasible option.;In general, the output from CRMs is a single estimate of the number of likely collisions. The uncertainty associated with these estimates is addressed to varying degrees within different CRMs. The majority of models applied onshore, such as Tucker (1996), Podolsky (2008), Holmstrom et al. (2011) and Smales et al. (2013), are deterministic and do not consider uncertainty within the model. The Band model is also deterministic but in the latest iteration of the model, the guidance provides a method to express the uncertainty associated with a collision estimate post hoc (Band 2012). By contrast, McAdam (2005) used a Monte Carlo model to consider joint distributions of wind speed and direction and distributions of flight height to produce collision risk estimates with associated measures of uncertainty. By using Bayesian methods, The US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) model naturally allows for the consideration of uncertainty. Statutory and nonstatutory stakeholders with a duty or interest in bird conservation have for some time called for uncertainty to be better reflected in the collision risk estimates