The most widely used resonators in offshore pile driving are HSDs. In this approach, stationary airfilled balloons or robust foam elements of different sizes reduce underwater sound. The balloons cause sound reflections, resonant effects with high scattering and absorption and material damping effects. Typically, the HSD elements are arranged either in nets or in boxes and placed in the vicinity of the noise source (Kuhn  Bruns 2013 Lee et al. 2013 Elmer  Savery 2014). A winch frame above the water and a basket that can be lowered as ballast weight keep the elements in place around the pile (Figure 7.7). In contrast to the BBC concept, no compressed air is needed, and there is nearly no influence by currents. The sound mitigation strictly depends on the number, distribution and type of HSD elements used. The main advantage of the HSD system is that the technicians can adjust the soundmitigation to a predefined frequency range. Laboratory and small scale tests with different HSD setups around 110 Hz resonance frequency indicate a noisereduction potential in the near field of up to 23 dB between 100 Hz and 600 Hz (Kuhn  Bruns 2013).;Figure 7.7 Working principle of the hydrosound damper system, with the system first fixed under the pile gripper in a compact arrangement (left), before it is released (centre) and then lowered to the seafloor (right). (Karl Heinz Elmer, OffNoiseSolutions GmbH Elmer et al. 2011).;The London Array windfarm construction team carried out the first fullscale test of HSDs during installation works in August 2012. The crew deployed a selfexpanding prototype (Figure 7.8) with an outer diameter of 9 m and a total weight of 17 t. The system consisted of three main components a buoyancy ring, the HSD net and a ballast box. Once lifted over the pile, the system was released and recovered automatically. Noise measurements were performed during the driving of a 5.7 m diameter monopile (Remmers  Bellmann 2013). Compared to a reference case without noise reduction, a reduction in SEL of 713 dB and in Lp,0pk of 7 15 dB was determined. The best damping efficiency in the range of 15 dB was recorded at the peak frequencies of the ramming noise at