(Skov et al. 2018). The three main aims of the project were (1) development of a bird monitoring system, which allows detecting and tracking bird movements at the species level in and around an operational OWF (2) monitoring of seabird behaviour by deploying a multiple sensor monitoring system at the macro (response to windfarm perimeter), meso (response to individual turbines) and micro (response to rotor and individual turbine blades) scales and (3) development of an appropriate methodology for quantifying empirical avoidance rates (EARs).;So far, recording of meso and microavoidance behaviour of birds has been constrained by the access of observers to platforms and turbines being limited to benign weather conditions. In the ORJIP project, an automated multisensor monitoring system (MUSE) based on integrated radar and digital camera was developed and applied from two turbine platforms to provide data on seabird behaviour within the wind farm. In addition to meso and microavoidance behaviour, the monitoring system recorded actual collisions. The system integrated automated tracking with identification of flying birds based on a combination of radar and digital camera recordings. The system made it possible to monitor four turbines from one unit and generate documentation for flight paths both as visual and thermal video and geographic information system (GIS) tracks. Examples of thermal video frames are shown in Figure 6.9. The MUSE system is based on digital communication between a fanbeam radar and a digital camera, in which the camera receives original direction and distance coordinates from the radar, and subsequently records the event by video. The integrated radar and camera unit is remotely controlled, and is subdivided into a Data Acquisition and Preprocessing System (DAPS) and a software package DAPSControl, for controlling the DAPS (Figure 6.10). The DAPS samples at 100 MHz and performs realtime median filtering of data from the radar. Multiple options for interfacing and data connections between the sensors exist at Thanet OWF the interface format was TCPIP. Remote access facilitated the transfer of data to a server onshore and the ability to watch