To facilitate the development of offshore wind energy with the lowest possible impacts on the marine environment, planning processes need to be informed by robust data on abundance and distribution of species that may be affected by this new marine industry. Legal frameworks require assessment of the impacts of plans and projects on the environment in general, and morespecifically in regard to protected species and protected areas (e.g. Natura 2000 EU 1979 EU 1992). While the legal frameworks are general, the kind of information required needs to be defined in order to assess the impacts of OWFs. As a result, the first three themes of this chapter provide details of the survey requirements for Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA), EIA and postconsent impact monitoring.;The remaining themesthen detail the methods available to survey seabirds at sea by both boats and planes. While these methods to survey seabirds have been established for quite some time, the scope of surveying seabirds in relation to OWFs differs from former studies of seabird distribution. The purpose of seabird surveys in relation to OWFs is defined by the authorities to inform consenting processes involving a wide range of stakeholders, and the information needs perceived by these groups influence the design of baseline and monitoring studies with respect to the focal species, survey area, survey frequency, transect spacing and even choice of method. One aspect determining the choice may be whether surveys of seabirds and marine mammals should be combined, as seabird survey techniques usually cover marine mammals and most seabird observers are familiar with whales and dolphins, while dedicated marine mammal surveys, by definition, are restricted to this species group (see Scheidat  Porter, Chapter 2).;There has been a shift in the methods used for characterisation and monitoring of seabird distribution and abundance offshore since the first EIAs were carried out for OWFs, from visual boat and aerial surveys to digital aerial methods. In comparison to the visual methods, digital aerial survey standards have been superseded by technological developments since they were first set in 2009, so this chapter describes the most recent descriptions of the different methods employed for offshore digital aerial surveys. As such, this chapter aims to provide an update to the previous review of methods provided by Camphuysen et al. (2004).