Technical Panel of the British Trust for Ornithology Ringing Committee panel in the UK. Such assessment is especially important when new species are studied or new methods of attachment are being suggested.;This chapter aims to review and detail how tracking and telemetry technology is being used, and also how it could be used, in many aspects of windfarm studies in relation to birds, with a focus on marine birds and some groups of migratory birds. Marine birds are defined as those that regularly use the marine environment, including species that are only found in such habitats, such as true seabirds in the families Procellariidae, Hydrobatidae, Sulidae, Phalacrocoracidae, Laridae and Alcidae in a European context, but also including waterbirds, such as seaduck (Anatidae), divers (loons) (Gaviidae) and grebes (Podicipedidae). The migratory birds considered include waterfowl such as swans and geese (Anatidae) and wading birds (of several families within the order Charadriiformes) that may interact with the marine environment at particular times of the year, especially by migrating over the sea surface. Although terrestrial species including raptors (Accipitridae, Pandionidae and Falconidae) and a wide range of passerines also have the potential to interact with OWFs on migration, they are not specifically covered as part of this chapter. The reader is referred to Molis et al. (Chapter 6) for further consideration of monitoring collision of terrestrial migratory birds at OWFs.;Relevant information was sourced by extensive searches of research archives such as Web of Science and Google Scholar, using combinations of (1) general key words, such as telemetry, tracking, birdborne, biologging, logger, instrument, tag and device (2) specific groups of telemetry devices, such as GPS, Doppler, PTT, geolocator and GSM (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011) (3) dataretrieval capability of systems satellite, archival, data storage, download, transmitter and receiver (e.g. Bridge et al. 2011) (4) terms such as offshore renewable energy,