One important metric for assessing the potential impact of OWFs on seabirds other than their density at sea is the height at whichthey fly. Camphuysen et al. (2004) recommended that estimates of bird flight heights be assigned to the following bands (after Lensink et al. 2002) 02 m, 210 m, 1025 m, 2550 m, 50100 m, 100 200 m and 200 m a.s.l. These height bands were selected on the assumption that the typical minimum height of an offshore turbine would be 25 m, but designs differ between projects, and even change within a project, meaning that calculation of the collision risk for seabirds is problematic. Although there was likely to be a degree of false accuracy, many projects adopted a more pragmatic approach of assigning bird heights to 5 m bands, and in some cases 1 m bands. Given the difficulty of estimating flight height and potential observer bias aboard survey platforms of variable height, the approach of using generic flightheight distributions of different seabird species generated from large sample sizes during a range of boatbased surveys (Johnston et al. 2014) has often been adopted.;Nevertheless, Thaxter et al. (2016) criticised boatbased estimation of flight heights for being biased low, suggesting that this was attributable to many flying seabirds having responded to the survey vessel and being recorded shortly after taking off from the sea, reduced detection rates at greater altitudes above the observation platform (similar to perpendicular reductions in detection rates of sitting birds), and responsive movement towards the ship in a vertical axis. A comparison between observer flight heights and those generated by a laser rangefinder provides some assurance of the accuracy of observers (Harwood et al. 2018). For example, the estimates of flight height of a range of species by experienced surveyors matched reasonably well with rangefinders in the same 5 m height band (58 agreement), with agreement increasing (to 92) if the adjacent height bands were also considered. Agreement did, however, vary between different seabird groups and there was a tendency for observers to underestimate the flight height of some species. Similarly, Cleasby et al. (2015), using altimeters on breeding adult Northern Gannets Morus bassanus, highlighted a disparity with Johnston et al. (2014) using data sets generated from boatbased surveys. However, the Cleasby et al. (2015) study may also be criticised for its low sample size and the methods of validation for the altimeters. Overall, the use of rangefinding equipment during surveys (see also