More work is still needed for many species, so the job is not yetdone. Key migration corridors of marine birds need to be identified to avoid reliance on precautionary information for windfarm interactions. A greater appreciation of the likely variation inherent in movements through time is also required to build up a baseline understanding, and the consequences of displacement are far from being fully understood for many species. More assessments of sample sizes are also required. Individual (or agent)based telemetry has traditionally suffered from the repeated sampling of a small number of birds and the question of how representative this is of an entire colony (Soanes et al. 2013). Only recently have specific studies been conducted to begin to address these issues for marine birds (Soanes et al. 2013 Bogdanova et al. 2014 Thaxter et al. 2017). However, increasingly complex data sets are being collected for long periods within a given season (such as breeding) over multiple years, adding further complexity. The sex, age, number of chicks and breeding site have also been found to have an influence on behaviour, highlighting the importance of developing a sampling regimen to reflect variability in movements and ensure that the tagged component is representative of the population studied (Soanes et al. 2014).;Telemetry can also be used in conjunction with other technologies and survey platforms (Louzao et al. 2009). For example, visual tracking of birds to provide GPS positional data has been used alongside handheld laser rangefinders to provide flight height information (Perrow et al. 2017). Telemetry is also congruent to radar studies (e.g. Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Plonczkier  Simms 2012) to assess influx and outflux of birds across the year as they cross wind farms. Further, for diving species such as auks, divers, grebes and seaduck that spend a proportion of their time underwater, the abundance figures derived from aerial and boat based surveys used in impact assessments may potentially be underestimated (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3). One possibility is to use tracking and telemetry data in combination, to assess the proportion of time spent underwater for a species and then apply a correction to the original number estimated. Different survey platforms are therefore very complementary. A joint approach combining different methods could therefore be a powerful one and could potentially improve sample sizes.