This chapter presents and discusses mitigation options for the reduction of collision risk, displacement and barrier effects, and indirect effects associated with OWF projects, in relation to birds with implications for bats. As the offshore equivalent to the onshore chapter provided by May (2017) in Volume 2 of this series, the themes are structured in relation to the mitigation hierarchy of (1)avoid, (2) minimise, (3) reduce, (4) compensate and (5) restore. Thus, in simple terms, impacts should be avoided during planning, but if they cannot be, then steps can be taken in the design stage to minimise impacts andor to reduce or compensate for them during construction and operation. If a wind farm is to be decommissioned, effort is required to restore the site to its original preimpact condition, although this may not be desirable should the site have acquired increased biodiversity and conservation value (Dannheim et al. 2019). Alternatively, wind farms may be repowered with more efficient and powerful turbines, presenting an opportunity to minimise and reduce impacts.;The information presented in this chapter builds on previous reviews by a number of authors, including Langston  Pullan (2003), Hppop et al. (2006), Drewitt  Langston (2006 2008), Edkins (2008), Cook et al. (2011), Gove et al. (2013), Marques et al. (2014), May et al. (2015) and Gartman et al. (2016a 2016b), as well as an extensive internet search (via Google and Google Scholar) of the most recent peerreviewed and grey literature, and following referenced literature. In addition, the authors have direct experience of many wind farms in the UK and potential discussions surrounding mitigation of potential effects, which have not been specifically published. The focus of any OWF literature is invariably concerned with development in northwestern European waters in the North, Baltic and Irish Seas, where the global windfarm industry has been concentrated. This is now changing with burgeoning markets particularly in southeast Asia, including China, Japan and Taiwan, along the eastern seaboard of the USA, as well as in other European countries (Jameson et al. 2019).;Searches revealed relatively few examples of the application of targeted mitigation measures for birds in the offshore environment. As a result, the possible application of measures adopted onshore was also considered, specifically by inviting opinion in the form of boxed case studies from selected researchers. This included the case of painting blades to increase visibility to vulnerable bird species (Hodos 2003 Johnson et al. 2007 May et al. 2017) and the potential to reduce collisions from temporary turbine shutdown (Tom et al. 2017a). In effect, these studies provide real examples of the application of measures or the processes involved. Moreover,