Shutdown on demand could also reduce impacts on migratory passerines and other nocturnal migrants. Most of these birds migrate on a broad front, at night and at high altitudes, but they frequently stop at promontories (capes) or islands. Adverse weather conditions associated with signalling lights could increase the attraction factor of OWFs (Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012 Hppop et al. 2019). These fluxes of migrants can be easily detected by radar, either locally, using surveillance radar, or on a wider scale by a network of weather radar sensors (Liechti et al. 2013). Acoustic detection and recording associated with radar could provide species identification. In either case, turbine shutdown, when a predefined threshold on the number of migrants is reached,shows some promise in being effective.;A preliminary evaluation of the use of shutdown at sea in Box 8.4shows that it may be readily achieved from a technical perspective with minimal losses to production, and there is clear promise that it could be effective for a number of bird groups, including migratory soaring species in specific locations and, more generally, migratory waterfowl and passerines as well as seabirds.;Another alternative to shutdown for bats is to alter the cutin wind speeds of turbines by feathering the blades as described in Box 8.1. It is not known, however, whether this is also likely to be effective for birds as while this would also reduce the amount of time the turbines are operational, with potential subsequent reductions in collision risk, there are no known studies that illustrate that freewheeling prior to cutin is a specific threat to birds in the offshore environment. As yet, much remains to be learnt about the true extent of collision at sea (King 2019) and how this may be measured (Molis et al., Chapter 6).;If impacts cannot be avoided, minimised or reduced sufficiently, then compensation measures provide a means of offsetting the impacts so that there is at least no net loss (Langston  Pullan 2003 Gardner et al. 2013). However, it may be difficult to define what no net loss equates to in relation to a specific OWF, particularly against a backdrop of other OWFs and anthropogenic pressures. It remains very challenging to quantify levels of collision mortality (see Molis et al., Chapter 6) and particularly in comparison to modelled estimates (see Cook  Masden, Chapter 5) at OWFs. The impacts of displacement, barrier and indirect effects also remain poorly understood, further complicating the definition of the levels of compensation that may be required.