Smla wind farm is located on the coast of Mre og Romsdal, central Norway. The Smla archipelago consists of alarge main island and about 5,500 smaller islands and islets. The archipelago forms a habitat for a variety of birds, including Whitetailed Eagle and Common Eider Somateria mollissima, among a range of other seaduck and diving ducks, cormorants, Northern Gannet Morus bassanus, a variety of Larus spp. gulls and Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla. Some of these species are known to be vulnerable to collision with offshore wind turbines (Furness et al. 2013a). Although onshore, the location of the Smla wind farm and the conditions experienced make it broadly comparable with turbines in inshore and coastal locations. More specifically, aerial foragers such as gannets and gulls spend much of their time flying at rotorswept height often in conditions of low visibility, thus increasing their risk of collision with the rotor blades and producing similar collision vulnerability scores as Whitetailed Eagle (Furness et al. 2013a). The soaring and circling flight behaviour of gulls and gannets during foraging, as well as social interactions, may also increase the risk of collision, as it does for raptors. Conversely, raptors migrating over the sea have been shown to be attracted to offshore wind farms, putting them at risk of colliding with turbines (Skov et al. 2016). Moreover, the review of seabird collisions by King (2019) notes a record of a Northern Fulmar Fulmarus glacialis colliding with a turbine base at Blyth Harbour in conditions of poor visibility. This opens the possibility of collision of a number of lowflying seabirds, such as auks, in a similar manner to that recorded for Willow Ptarmigan at Smla.;In general, as shown in this study, contrast painting of rotor blades and tower bases on offshore wind turbines is expected to be effective, not least because of the small contrast in colour between the airspace and water surface relative to onshore areas. Which contrast colour would be most effective remains to be investigated, however.