Figure 6.6 Pencilbeam radar (with cover removed) for measuring migration intensity (top) and recorded wingbeat pattern of a bird (bottom), that allows identification of the species group in this case a small passerine such as the European Robin Erithacus rubecula shown. (IfA);There are, however, several crucial limitations of radar technology for studying the interactions between turbines and birds and bats. Most importantly, radar cannot detect collisions because of its spatial resolution. Even modern radar devices do not differentiate between birds, bats and rotor blades because the spatial resolution of radar signals is still too coarse (Gauthreaux  Belser 2003 Urmy et al. 2017). Secondly, relatively high radio wave reflectivity by the wind turbine itself masks bird or bat signals owing to overlapping radar echoes in the nearturbine airspace as well as the formation of radar shadows on the far side of the wind turbine relative to the radar. Hence, the disappearance of an echo after a bat or bird has entered the rotorswept airspace may be due to collision, to the animals entrance into the turbines radar shadow or to its departure from the area covered by the radar beam. Thirdly, when using a pencilbeam radar for quantification of altitudinal bird distribution, detectability is limited at very low altitudes because of the extremely small sampling volume near the source of a pencil beam. For this reason, Gauthreaux  Livingston (2006), for instance, were unable to quantify bird migration at altitudes below 25 m. Fourthly, radar tracking is dependent on target course and velocity. Echoes of animals flying at low radial speed, for example in headwind conditions, or tangentially to a radar beam are frequently undetected by Doppler radar systems. Kelly et al. (2009) mention wave clutter, interference with ship radar and difficulties in detecting birds on or directly above the sea surface as specific problems for radar application in offshore environments. Nevertheless, Kelly et al. (2009) also suggest solutions to these problems, such as the use of (1) vertically scanning or profiling radar systems or installation of an artificial radar horizon to avoid the effects of wave clutter, (2) constant false alarm rate processing or interference rejection algorithms to minimise interference with a ships radar, and (3) Doppler processing, scantoscan integration correlation or frequency diversity processing to enhance the detection of bats and birds close