Perception and availability bias can also be estimated at the same time. One example of this is from Laake et al. (1997), who tracked porpoise sightings from land at the same time as an aerial survey was underway overhead. This provided data on the availability of the porpoises to the aerial observers as well as how many were missed by the observers. However, this approach requires the species or population of interest to be located close to a shore that has a suitably high vantage point, which is not applicable to most study areas. For Harbour Porpoise, the circleback or racetrack method was specifically developed for aerial surveys (Hiby  Lovell 1998 Hiby 1999). Originally, this method was applied using two aircraft flying in tandem. Currently, the survey aircraft circles back over a section of the transect line after an initial sighting and resamples it after a timelag of about 3 minutes. This allows an estimate to be made of the resightability rate of an animal that is known to be present and visible during the first pass, but may not be visible to or may be missed by the observer on the second pass. The analysis also takes additional parameters into account, such as the swimming speed of the animals. In general, 50100 racetracks are needed to determine a reliable g(0) for a particular survey. For boatbased surveys, independent observations can be made visually or acoustically, and are often referred to as dual or double platform techniques. For visual dualplatform surveys, the primary observation team searches with the naked eye close to the vessel, while a secondary tracker team uses highpowered binoculars to search the transect line much farther in front ofthe boat (Figure 2.3). Once a detection is made, the tracker team continues to record the detected animal or group until the sighting is seen by the primary team, or it disappears from view. In this way, the proportion of detections missed by the primary team can be calculated, including both perception and availability bias. It is also possible to use acoustic data as an independent detection method, provided that vocalisation behaviour is independent of surfacing behaviour. As yet, only a few studies have used dual acousticvisual survey methods (Berrow et al. 2018) and more work is required to develop suitable analyses before this method can be used more widely.;Figure 2.3 During doubleplatform surveys, highpowered binoculars are used by a secondary tracker team to determine the ability of the primary observer team to detect sightings and thus contribute to estimation of g(0). (WWF Hong Kong);Most of these methods need a minimum number of sightings to calculate a g(0) value. In areas with a low density of the target species and in comparatively small survey areas this poses a major challenge, which often holds true for windfarm developments. If it is not possible to obtain a g(0) value, or a value of one of its components, it is important to state clearly