The evidence base regarding the efficacy of seal scarers in deterring seals, for which they were designed, is still inconclusive (Gtz  Janik 2013). However, seal scarers have been shown to cause aversive behaviour in Harbour Porpoises to a distance of several kilometres (Brandt et al. 2012 2013 Dhne et al. 2013 2017). Despite this, the deterrence of porpoises by seal scarers is not 100 effective as a small number of individuals may remain in the area afterwards. From a conservation perspective, it should be noted that the use of seal scarers could become an issue as a result of the potential to lead to largescale habitat exclusion, at least inporpoises and perhaps also in other odontocetes (Gtz  Janik 2013 McGregor et al. 2013).;Safety zones can be established to avoid marine mammals being exposed to noise doses where injury would otherwise be caused. For example, the Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC) in the UK advises an exclusion zone of 500 m for piledriving operations (JNCC 2010). Trained marine mammal observers are required to detect marine mammals within the safety zone by sight. Passive acoustic monitoring (PAM) is used in addition to detect marine mammals at night or during averse sighting conditions (JNCC 2010 Verfu et al. 2016 Scheidat  Porter, Chapter 2). PAM technology is to likely become more advanced in identifying species and perhaps even individuals, and also in supporting realtime monitoring. However, it can only monitor safety zones if the species of interest produces sound most of the time, which may not be the case for all such species (Weilgart 2007).;Softstart or rampup is a gradual increase in hammer impact energy and strike rate. This is often done at the beginning of impact piledriving to penetrate the seabed without damage to the equipment. Softstart allows marine mammals to swim away while being exposed to lower levels of sound compared to the full impact. Although widely used across various European countries, it is remains unclear how efficient this technique really is (OSPAR 2009 Boyle  New 2018).;Temporalspatial restrictions have the potential to be very effective because the soundproducing activity is permitted in a certain period or season in a certain area. Several European states have imposed seasonal restrictions on piling, mainly due to fish spawning times. For example in the UK, a number of OWF projects have seen