The volume then moves into mitigation, beginning with Mitigating the effects of noise that reviews all current technological options in reducing construction noise in particular, especially where this is undertaken with piledriving, which is widely thought to be one of the principal threats of offshore windfarm development to wildlife such as marine mammals and fish. Mirroring the mitigation hierarchy approach adopted in the equivalent onshore chapter in Volume 2, Mitigation for birds outlines some of the mostly theoretical options for reducing collision and displacement of birds, several of which also stem from researchonshore. The subtitle with implications for bats nods to some of the additional information provided in a standalone box. The final chapter of the nine, Perspectives on marine spatial planning, provides a history of how plans to install offshore wind farms have been a key driver of marine spatial planning and provides a series of recommendations in relation to future planning requirements that are a crucial first step in avoiding potential impacts of wind farms.;To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgements and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results and Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over all four volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whilst others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides an up to 300word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themes provide the main body of the text, and are generally divided into as few subheading levels as possible. Division of material between windfarm phases (e.g. construction, operation and decommissioning) was generally avoided as this increased the number of subheadings and led to an unwieldy structure. Rather, any clear differences between windfarm phases, for example where specific monitoring methods should be applied, were incorporated into specific subheadings.;As well as being liberally decorated with tables, figures and especially photographs, which are reproduced in colour courtesy of sponsorship by Vattenfall, most chapters also contain Boxes. These were designed to be provide important examples of a particular point or case or suffice as an allround exemplar and thus stand alone from the text. In a few cases, these have been written by an