Structurally, the model followed a simple flow pattern. An annual carrying capacity was allocated from the mean value with Gaussian error. Under the default parameter set, this kept the mean population size close to the recorded size. The next step was reproduction, which was modulated by density dependence at higher densities. This was succeeded by natural background mortality and then windfarmbased mortality. At each step, the model considered the parameter (reproduction or mortality) probability of each individual in turn, as described above. At this point, the annual population size was recorded,all individuals had their age incremented by a year, and the cycle restarted.;Early versions of the model explored the population impacts of particular windfarm configurations at Docking Shoal and Race Bank, both separately and in combination, with consideration of different combinations of number and size of turbines, and at a range of collision avoidance rates of 95 99.6. This approach was subsequently replaced by a separation between the PVA and the collision risk model the final version of ViaPop did not consider windfarm configurations or avoidance rates, but simply considered a wide range of different mortality levels that might be expected to arise from a variety of assumed windfarm configurations and avoidance rates.;Given the stochastic nature of the population model, and its use to simulate a wide range of possible levels of collision mortality, ViaPop generated a distribution of predicted population sizes after a period of 25 years under both the baseline scenario and each of the impact scenarios (Figure 5.7). These basic outputs were also expressed in a number of other ways which acknowledged the stochasticity within the predictions under each scenario, and allowed comparisons to be made of (1) the absolute probability that the population under each scenario would fall below a range of different threshold levels, and (2) the change in those probabilities between each impact scenario and the baseline scenario. These results were presented in a variety of graphical forms, such as Figure 5.8 and Figure 5.9.