Furthermore, Loukogeorgaki et al. (2018) incorporated EIA into their spatial analysis for site selection of hybrid offshore wind and wave energy systems in Greece through development of an environmental performance value (EPV) to combine all potentialimpacts, including those for birds, as a metric alongside physical site characteristics and economic considerations. As a general point, where suitable data are unavailable for such analyses, inference through spatial modelling may be used to address any knowledge gaps (Lapea et al. 2010).;Overall, any mapping exercises aim to quantify potential risk and help identify the best areas for development where space is limited. However, in reality, there may actually be very few areas that tick all the right boxes in multiple criteria assessments and it may be impossible to find suitable areas where all risks to a variety of birds, from seabirds to migratory waterfowl, passerines and raptors, as well as bats, can be easily avoided. This is especially true where baseline data for less wellstudied groups (such as migratory passerines, raptors and bats) are lacking.;Most OWFs are designed as regular grids of turbines, most often in rectangular or diamond configurations. However, changing the size, shape, layout and orientation of a windfarm array may reduce displacement, barrier and collision impacts. Such planning is often referred to as micrositing and requires a robust ecological understanding to inform decision making and provide confidence that reductions in risk will be meaningful and sustained. Site specific surveys should provide detailed information about site utilisation by sensitive species, with the sources of risk for different seabird species from OWFs derived from expert opinion (Garthe  Hppop 2004 Furness  Wade 2012 Furness et al. 2013b) and postconstruction monitoring (Dierschke et al. 2016 King 2019 Vanermen  Stienen 2019) in particular.;To date, there is consensus that only a few species, such as Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo and Great Blackbacked Gull Larus marinus,are attracted to wind farms, with Common Eider Somateria mollissima consistently indifferent, and species such as divers (loons) (Gavia spp.), alcid auks and Northern Gannet Morus bassanus generally avoiding wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen 2019). As