Pioneering telemetry studies, for instance using archival depth recorders and capillary tubes, were conducted as early as the 1940s (e.g. Scholander 1940 Eliassen 1960). Since the 1980s, passive integrated responder (PIT) tags have been widely used to study animal movements (Gibbons  Andrews 2004), although as these use communication over very short distances between the tag and receiver, the animal either has to be captured or must pass close to the receiver. For birds in relation to marine environment, such devices have been limited to studying aspects such as nestsite attendance (e.g. Le Maho et al. 1993). Tracking studies that measured the location of animals were also first undertaken in the 1980s (Ropert Coudert  Wilson 2005) using radiotracking and groundbased receivers (Amlaner  McDonald 1980 Kenward 1987 Wanless et al. 1990). Radiotracking has limitations of distance due to signal retention and lineofsight issues, and radio signals cannot penetrate seawater (Wilson  Vandenabele 2012). Paradoxically, this limitation has proved useful in observing the behaviour of diving species, as the gap between signals may be used to indicate diving duration (Wanless et al. 1993). Furthermore, radiotelemetry is often an attractive, or in some cases the only, method available for smaller species, owing to the availability of very small tags. Individual birds that have been tagged with radiotransmitters have also been followedoffshore from boats or aircraft (Heath  Randall 1989 Perrow et al. 2006 Adams  Takekawa 2008) (Figure 4.1). Coordinated radiotelemetry networks have been developed more recently, providing a powerful tool to understand broader migration patterns (Taylor et al. 2017).;Figure 4.1 Examples of different telemetry devices used to track species at sea (a) Lesser Blackbacked Gull Larus fuscus with a GPS tag (Gary Clewley) (b) Great Skua Stercorarius skua with a GPS tag (Tim Stenton) (c) Whooper Swan Cygnus cygnus with a GPSPTT transmitter (WWT) (d) Atlantic Puffin Fratercula arctica with a geolocator (Eleanor Wood) (e) Little Tern Sternula albifrons with a radiotransmitter (Martin Perrow) (f) Barnacle Goose Branta leucopsis with a GPSPTT transmitter (WWT) (g) Razorbill Alca torda with a timedepth recorder (Chris Thaxter) and (h) Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tradactyla with a GPS tag (Kane Brides).;The onset of satellite relay systems permitted the gathering of locational data on animals anywhere on the planet (e.g. Jouventin  Weimerskirch 1990 Hart  Hyrenbach 2009). Platform terminal transmitters (PTTs) record location through the Doppler effect, whereby a shift in wavelength radio