The assessment of both cumulative and incombination effects constitutes a major task in conducting SEAs on MSP plans and involves the identification of impacts from multiple uses those subject to the plan and those interacting with it. The consideration of cumulative effects proves most effective at higher planning levels, where developments might still avoid and mitigate unintended effects substantially. However, some aspects tend to be tiered to the licensing phase anyway, for example, the in combination effects of pile driving and underwater noise, which remain uncertain until the exact piling position and construction period have been determined. For biota, the analysis may focus on the significance of affecting the most sensitive species and habitats. The leads to the challenging questions of acceptable levels of impact and the carrying capacity of ecosystems in terms of cumulative OWF development in combination with other anthropogenic stressors. In general, an absence of a common understanding about the nature of cumulative (and incombination) effects prevails (Willsteed et al. 2018), causing a bottleneck forbetter practice. In a critical review of nine OWF Round 3 developments in England and Wales, Willsteed et al. (2018) found that spatial aspects and pressures were identified more comprehensively than temporal aspects.;The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management uses the modelbased tool Symphony (SwAM 2017) in its MSP (Figure 9.6) to assess cumulative environmental impacts from different planning options (SwAM 2018). The ecosystem components of the Swedish territorial waters and EEZ are mapped in 250250 m grids and overlaid by marine pressure maps. A sensitivity matrix describes how sensitive each ecosystem component is considered to be towards the multiple pressures, based on expert judgement. By repeating the calculation for different planning options, alternatives can be compared to support the decision process. Although model assumptions have their weaknesses and uncertainties, Symphony provides a worthwhile tool to analyse the cumulative impacts at a feasible spatial resolution. Mapping uses, pressures and sensitivities of ecosystems establish the first step in finding planning solutions for conflicting marine uses.