As individual projects become operational, a better understanding about the impacts they have on species and populations can be gained (e.g. Dierschke et al. 2016). This shifts the focus of assessment towards considers the cumulative impact of multiple developments (Maclean et al. 2014 Goodale  Milman 2016 Thaxter et al. 2017), particularly given that many species face pressure from multiple anthropogenic activities (Burthe et al. 2014). Often, assessments only consider developments of a similar type for example, a windfarm cumulative impact assessment (CIA) will consider other wind farms or renewable energy developments at most, but not other anthropogenic activities such as fisheries or oil and gas installations (Masden et al. 2010). In addition, the assessments are often restricted in spatial and temporal extent and with regard to the species or receptors included. As a consequence,the practices and existing approaches for CIA so far have been largely found to be inadequate (Ma et al. 2012 Willsteed et al. 2017).;Despite a proliferation in potential CIA approaches for a broad range of taxa including birds, turtles, marine mammals and bats (Maxwell et al. 2013 Brabant et al. 2015 SanzAguilar et al. 2015 Voigt et al. 2015 Bastos et al. 2016 Busch  Garthe 2017), there is a significant mismatch between the relatively simplistic approaches employed by industry and the latest modelling techniques that better capture biological processes (Humphreys et al. 2016). Given the building evidence about how density dependence (Horswill et al. 2017), dispersal (Grebler et al. 2015) and sourcesink dynamics (Kirol et al. 2015) may affect population responses to anthropogenic pressure, widely adopted approaches to CIA are likely to be limited to producing realistic predictions of impact only for a narrow range of circumstances. The key challenge is to scaleup potentially multiple impacts on individual animals to the level of the population(s) concerned, by predicting changes to demographic rates (May et al. 2019). This may require more data than are often available for impacted populations, but it is unclear how a failure to account for such processes may affect the conclusions and ultimately the decisions made by consenting bodies.;By identifying the circumstances under which different approaches and assumptions may be applied, and the consequences for doing so, it may be possible to balance biological realism with the requirements and realities of the assessment process (Getz et al. 2017 MilnerGulland  Shea 2017). In some circumstances, an investment in the collection of additional demographic data may be required. There is an urgent need to address the mismatch between regulatory requirements and biological realism to minimise both the risk of negative cumulative impacts affecting vulnerable species and the risk of poor regulatory decision making hampering renewable energy deployment and economic development.