In most of these locations there are currently no plans for offshore wind farms (OWFs). However, in places such as the Baltic Sea, where offshore wind energy is being developed at a fast rate, wind farms may intercept migratory routes. This may pose a serious threat to soaring birds because of their difficulties in flying over water, which force them to losealtitude and may also hamper their ability to avoid obstacles, especially under poor weather conditions. Moreover, Skov et al. (2016) provided evidence that soaring species, including those that do not depend so much on thermals, such as falcons and harriers, may be attracted to offshore turbines. This is probably best explained by an island effect, similar to that in which migratory landbirds crossing water are attracted to islands, especially during adverse weather (wind and rain), because they may provide a place to land and rest. These findings suggest that shutdown on demand may also be useful in some offshore situations to prevent soaring bird collisions.;Any procedures adopted could be implemented with similar protocols to those being used on land. In an offshore situation radar assistance would be of increased importance, since it is more difficult and expensive to deploy visual observers at sea. Also, bird assemblages in the whole overwater context are typically less complex in the offshore environment, making it easier for radar software to discriminate birds from other targets as well as to identify specific groups of birds that could be predefined as shutdown criteria.;Ultimately, and for these reasons, a fully automated radar shutdown system would probably be more efficient at sea than onshore. In this case, threedimensional information regarding birds trajectories and altitude would be crucial, presuming the deployment of both horizontal and vertical radar. Shutdown decisions would then be based on a threshold of the number of birds moving towards the wind farm at highrisk flight altitudes.;Radar and visual observers locations should be carefully selected to detect the birds sufficiently early, allowing the shutdown of the turbines in time. Previous studies on bird movements in the area are essential to determine such locations. Depending on the case, and on the birds behaviour in the area, radar and observers may be located around the wind farm or upstream relative to the previously established main flightline(s). Radar sensors could be placed on turbines located at the edge of the wind farm, on other supporting structures that may exist in the area, or even on land, if the