Marine mammals, particularly toothed cetaceans (Odontoceti), are highly vocal and rely on the emission and reception of sound to communicate, forage and navigate. PAM techniques detect the presence of vocalising marine mammals and it is often possible to identify the different species present. From detailed analyses of vocalisations, some behavioural information can also be inferred. PAM systems deployed during boatbased surveys can provide spatial information on the abundance and distribution of the species that are acoustically detected (Figure 2.6). Static acoustic devices anchored to the seabed, or suspended in the water column, provide temporal information useful for monitoring species occurrence and trends in habitat use (see Passive acoustic monitoring surveys using static devices, below). Using acoustic arrays with multiple hydrophones typically fixed on to long cables (400 m), it is possible to collect data that allow relative abundance estimation through distance sampling techniques (Buckland  York 2017). Since the 1970s, such systems have been used extensively for marine mammal research (e.g. Watlington 1979 Gordon et al. 1999 Gillespie  Chappell 2002) and more recently have become an integral part of cetacean monitoring in relation to wind farms. Differences in the time of arrival of cetacean vocalisations at stereo pairs of hydrophones can be used to calculate bearings to thevocalising animal. Target motion analysis can then be used to provide locational information and to estimate the distance to the detection from the transect line along which the vessel is travelling. These range data allow the calculation of detection functions that provide the basis of linetransect analyses (Thomas et al. 2010). Some species vocalisations are particularly suitable for absolute abundance estimation, such as those from Sperm Whale Physeter macrocephalus however, for some species, such as delphinids and pilot whales Globicephala spp., it is only possible to estimate indices of abundance for the purposes of mapping and habitat modelling (Aguilar de Soto et al. 2008 Gordon et al. 1999 Embling 2008). A combination of acoustic and visual boatbased surveys can be especially useful in filling in data gaps on deepdiving species, such as sperm and beaked whales (e.g. Berrow et al. 2018), although these are not currently target species for windfarm developments. This may change in the future as wind farms expand in new areas and deeper waters, particularly with the advent of floating wind farms (Jameson et al. 2019).;Figure 2.6 A hydrophone array (red line behind the vessel) deployed during combined acoustic visual surveys. (AER Corps, Ireland)