Mortality likelihoods were allocated to individuals based on the baseline mortality rates with the incorporation of Gaussian error. Baseline mortality rates were ageclass specific, with two age classes specified adults and juveniles (incorporating juveniles of age 0 and immature birds to age 3 years). Mortality due to windfarm collisions was expressed by removing at random a fixed number of individuals from the population on every annual cycle within the harvesting period, of (by default) 25 years.;The level of reproductive output, prior to any density dependent effects, was allocated to individual females, with Gaussian error. Females could only reproduce if there was an available unmated male in the model population. Field observations indicated a considerable variation between the reproductive outputs of individual colonies within the North Norfolk Coast SPA in different years, owing to the varying impact of weather events and predator impacts. The model thus included as the default option a cohort effect that allocated all individual females within one annual cycle a fixed reproductive output generated by random selection from the probability density function of observed colony reproduction rates. Density dependence is an inevitable and necessary element in the dynamics of every population process. Without a negative feedback loop, a population will necessarily either climb to infinity or descend to extinction (albeit possibly with a transient period of unstable equilibrium). For the purposes of this PVA, negative density dependence at high densities operated through an influence on productivity alone.;Structurally, the model followed a simple flow pattern. An annual carrying capacity was allocated from the mean value with Gaussian error. Under the default parameter set, this kept the mean population size close to the recorded size. The next step was reproduction, which was modulated by density dependence at higher densities. This was succeeded by natural background mortality and then windfarmbased mortality. At each step, the model considered the parameter (reproduction or mortality) probability of each individual in turn, as described above. At this point, the annual population size was recorded,