The optimal survey height during aerial surveys depends partly on the species of interest, as well as safety considerations. Observers will have a larger field of vision (and thus more time to scan the area) if the aircraft is at a higher altitude, but again, this can make species identification more challenging as the marine mammal is at considerable distance from the observer. For surveys focusing on small cetaceans, a height of 150180 m is generally recommended (e.g. Hammond et al. 2017). This poses another issue in areas where wind farms are located, such as the North Sea, as flying at this level is generally not permitted because of safety concerns. As stated, when designing surveys, it is critical to assess what constraints there are throughout the entire cycle of the windfarm development and which survey techniques are the most appropriate to use. In practice in the North Sea, the proportion of survey area missed owing to obstruction from existing wind farms is minor however, as more wind farms are developed, this particular issue will play a greater role in survey design.;Digital aerial surveys have several advantages, the main one being that sightings can be replayed and reviewed multiple times, which increases observation objectivity and minimises some biases. Furthermore, for both manned and unmanned vehicles, only a flying crew is required as observer teams do not need to be on board, making flying the survey cheaper and logistically less challenging, with some health and safety risks also reduced. High definition digital camera systems attached to aircraft can collect either moving or still imagery, and such systems have been used successfully to census birds (Buckland et al. 2012) and to estimate the relative abundance of Harbour Porpoise (Williamson et al. 2016). For windfarm impact assessments, the German government requires that digital aerial surveys be conducted for birds and cetaceans (BSH 2013). As with aerial surveys with human observers, this method works best in good weather conditions. Analysis of the resultant data still requires considerable human