Figure 8.5 A selection of key seabird species likely to be of importance in relation to any need to mitigate collision risk at wind farms in the North and Irish Seas in particular. Clockwise from upper right Northern Gannet Morus bassanus, European Herring Gull Larus argentatus (in winter plumage), Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla (in winter plumage) and Lesser Blackbacked Gull Larus fuscus. These species, alongside Great Black backed Gull Larus marinus,were the component species of the spatialcollision risk mapping shown in Figure 8.4. (Martin Perrow);The overall continuity, shape, alignment and size of a windfarm array are likely to affect how a bird will perceive it as a potential risk and whether it is willing to enter the site or is displaced from it. In simple terms, there is evidence, particularly from onshore studies, of a speciesspecific avoidance distance, with 100 displacement being achieved if this exceeds the spacing between turbines (Perrow 2019). However, avoidance distance appears to vary on a sitespecific basis (Htker 2017), with this being attributable in some cases to a specific parameter such as hub height, with taller turbines increasing avoidance distance (see Figure 7.4 in Htker 2017 in relation to Northern Lapwing Vanellus vanellus). Avoidance distance also appears to depend on resource availability, with birds taking more risk and coming closer to turbines where resources are limited outside the wind farm or more abundant within it (Perrow 2019).;Thus, varying the spacing between turbines in an array affects how permeable it will be to different species. The value of modifying the permeability of a site is demonstrated by Masden et al. (2012) using modelled flight trajectories of Common Eider based on postconstruction radar data for the Danish Nysted OWF, in relation to different turbine configurations, spacing and extent to assess the likelihood of birds passing between turbines. Reducing the spacing between turbine rows to lower permeability resulted in fewer birds entering the wind farm, with associated reductions in collision risk. However, increasing the number of rows in an array resulted in increasing distances between turbines before birds would fly between them, suggesting that the response of the birds was also sensitive to the overall size of the development. A diamond array oriented with the main direction of travel produced the least permeable configuration due mainly to the alignment of the array. Arrays may also have variable permeability throughout the site, with birds more readily flying through corners of the wind farm, as there are fewer turbines to pass when transiting the risk area (Masden et al. 2012). Thus, removing corners and consequently producing a circular array may mean that fewer birds will enter the site, thereby again reducing collision risk (Figure 8.2).