Several species of migratory bats cross the open sea, but relatively little is known about their interactions with wind turbines (Hppop et al. 2019). Starting in 2005, a 2 year project investigated the possible impact on migrating bats of wind turbines positioned 14 km offshore in the Kalmar Sound between the Swedish mainland and the island of land (Ahln et al. 2009). The study addressed two questions (1) Do bats cross the Kalmar Sound (including the offshore wind farms Utgrunden and Ytre Stengrund) during migration? and, if so, (2) Is there any potential impact, such as collisions, of bats with wind turbines? This study exemplifies the usefulness of multiple methods for the quantification of encounter frequencies and interactions between offshore wind turbines and bats. Five methods were simultaneously applied to measure bat activities (1) a landbased manual detector survey was conducted of bat departure from two sites on land (Eckelsudde and Ottenby) (2) a manual detector survey of flight activity was carried out from a vessel at sea for 14 nights (total 29 hours) up to 4 hours after sunset (3) bat abundance was recorded with marine radar positioned on the Utgrunden lighthouse whereby bats were distinguished from birds by theirflight behaviour and bat classification was verified through vesselbased manual detector identification during the first night (4) automated bat detector systems were placed at the bottom of several wind turbines to record bat activity simultaneously and (5) an infrared thermal imaging camera (Palm IR PRO, Raytheon Co., Waltham, MA, USA) was used to record bat behaviour around wind turbines.;Landbased manual detector surveys documented up to seven species leaving land towards the sea, mainly from Ottenby. The most common migrating species were Nathusius Pipistrelle Pipistrellus nathusii, Soprano Pipistrelle P. pygmaeus and Noctule Nyctalus noctula (Figure 6.7). Most bats left the island at a wind speed of around 4 ms, but were also regularly observed migrating with winds up to 9 ms. Most departures from stopover sites were recorded during the first 3 hours after sunset in August and September.