There are two approaches to digital aerial survey, using either bespoke digital video camera technology or digital stills camera technology. The digital stills camera technologies are largely based on systems used for aerial photogrammetry, and all successful digital aerial surveys are operated by commercial companies in the UK, Germany, Denmark and the USA. Both approaches can be employed for a striptransect sampling or plot sampling regime. In transectbased surveys, birds will be present in one to two frames in digital stills camera systems or seven to ten frames in video camera systems, depending on the framerate capability of the camera and datastorage systems.;The sensors used in cameras are always very high end, based on chargecoupled devices (CCDs) or complementary metaloxide semiconductors (CMOS), and have arrays of pixels significantly greater than normally seen in domestic camera systems. The image quality is dependent on a number of factors, but key to this is the image resolution on the ground, or the ground sample distance (GSD), which is the dimensions of the image on the ground for each pixel. The distance to the object or ground, the focal length of the camera lenses and the physical size of the camera sensor pixels determine the GSD. Most digital aerial surveys are now operated at an image resolution of 2 cm GSD, and this is generally sufficient to identify most birds to species level. The number of pixels in the sensor and the image resolution determine the size of the image, which, in effect, determines the transect strip width, or the dimensions of the plot.;Trained operatives undertake postsurvey review of digital images under laboratory conditions. All digital aerial survey operators review their imagery to search for objects that are likely to be birds or other marine megavertebrates, then pass these objects for identification to the lowest order possible, preferably species, and apply a confidence to that identification. In both phases, there is a qualityassurance (QA) process, usually consisting of a doubleblind review or identification of either 10 or 20 of the material, and requiring at least 90 agreement between the first and second reviews. Unlike visualbased survey methods, the detection of objects is uniform across the transect or plot, avoiding the need for calculating a detection function to correct for