Figure 7.11 Installation of a suction bucket jacket at Borkum Riffgrund 1 in the North Sea in August 2014. (rsted Wind Power AS  SPT Offshore);Building on the gathered experience with suction buckets, Vattenfall and rsted have decided to install a larger number of suction bucket jackets at the Aberdeen (Scottish North Sea) and Borkum Riffgrund 2 (German Bight) wind farms, respectively (Vattenfall 2017 ST3 Offshore 2018). The projects are the first commercialscale deployments of suction bucket technology in offshore wind. At Aberdeen, 11 jackets with 9.5 m diameter and 13 m tall suction buckets on each leg were successfully anchored to the seabed between March and May 2018. Another 20 suction bucket jackets were installed at Borkum Riffgrund 2 wind farm between July and August 2018. At both sites, the foundations will carry 8.4 MW offshore wind turbines.;Regarding the Mono Bucket concept, two fullscale prototypes of 18.5 m diameter and up to 18.5 m height, topped by two 8.4 MW offshore wind turbines, are scheduled for installation adjacent to the Deutsche Bucht wind farm (German Bight) in mid2019. The removal of two meteorological met masts, which were installed on smaller Mono Bucket foundations (15 m diameter, 7 m height) at Dogger Bank in December 2013, has already demonstrated that Mono Bucket foundations can be fully decommissioned without significant noise emissions by reversing the installation process (Carbon Trust 2013 Universal Foundation 2017). This is also important from the perspective of marine life.;In principle, other foundation types, such as gravity (base) foundations and floating OWFs (see overviews in Carbon Trust 2015a Jameson et al. 2019), may be installed with far less noise than those using piles, especially monopiles. Gravity foundations are large boxlike structures that are typically made of concrete and steel. Their stability is achieved by the deadweight of the structure, supplemented by additional ballast. The available models differ in shape and production details. Developers have installed gravity based foundations in several projects, especially in the Danish part of the Baltic Sea and the Belgian part of the North Sea, in water