In the light of the model outputs, and the way in which these were interpreted, the SNCBs advised DECC regarding the number of predicted collisions that, if exceeded, would in their view mean that an adverse effect on the integrity of the SPAcould not be ruled out beyond reasonable scientific doubt. In the light of this advice, DECC conducted a strategic appropriate assessment of the predicted impact of four proposed windfarm developments in the Greater Wash area (in combination with the existing Sheringham Shoal wind farm). The result was a decision that the development closest to the Sandwich Tern colonies, and so with the largest per turbine predicted mortality rate, namely Docking Shoal, could not be consented without the level of predicted collision mortality exceeding that at which the risk of the population declining was considered to be acceptably low.;This case study set several precedents. First, this was the first use within the field of windfarm impact assessments in the UK of an individualbased simulation PVA to gauge the likelihood of an adverse effect on the integrity of an SPA. Secondly, this was the first example of the use of a riskbased approach to the interpretation of the outputs of a stochastic PVA, and so the first application of the fundamental concept of scientific judgement (i.e. that of probability), to a sciencebased assessment of a predicted impact within an HRA. Thirdly, this was the first example of a strategic approach to making wind farm consenting decisions in which the predicted contributions of several developments to a cumulative effect were assessed and differing consent decisions reached in each case. Finally, even though dependent upon a stochastic population model, a riskbased approach to interpretation of probabilistic model outputs, and the use of density dependence in that modelling, all of which have subsequently been subject to much criticism on the grounds of being poor science and lacking precaution (Green et al. 2016), this was the first case in which a proposed OWF development in UK waters was refused consent on the basis of the level of risk it was predicted to pose to the well being of a population of seabirds. To this day, as far as the authors are aware, it remains the only such case.;The modelling studies outlined were funded by Centrica Renewable Energy Ltd. on behalf of Centrica Race Bank Wind Ltd. and Centrica Docking Shoal Wind Ltd. Material presented here is reproduced from unpublished reports to Centrica Renewable Energy