All digital video surveys use what is known as the HiDef method, first developed by HiDef Aerial Surveying Ltd in the UK, and later also operated by BioConsult SH in Germany. The surveys can be flown in different twinengined aircraft types and do not require the highwinged varieties of visual aerial surveys (Figure 3.10). Typical aircraft are the Diamond DA42, Vulcanair P68 and Piper PA23 (Aztec), flown at a height of approximately 550 m (1,800 feet) a.s.l. Flying above 500 m ensures that there is no risk of flushing those species known to be easily disturbed by aircraft noise (Thaxter et al. 2016 Wei et al. 2016). Position data for the aircraft are capturedfrom a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver with differential GPS enabled to give 1 m accuracy, and recording updates in location at 1 second intervals for matching later to bird and marine mammal observations. Surveys are flown in conditions of moderate to high cloud (at least above 550 m), with no precipitation and clear visibility. While the maximum potential operational wind speed for surveying is Beaufort force 6 (14 ms), in practice, slower maximum wind speeds of Beaufort force 4 (8 ms) are preferred.;The survey aircraft is equipped with four HiDef Gen II cameras with sensors set to a resolution of 2 cm GSD. Each camera samples a strip of 125 m width, separated from the next camera by approximately 25 m, thus providing a combined sampled width of 500 m within a 575 m overall strip. However, in Germany the full potential strip width of these cameras has been used to give a total strip width of 544 m. This comb pattern with gaps between the cameras is employed to ensure that no individual birds are double counted between cameras and to target a wider area for detection of birds than the limits of the camera strip width, thus increasing the encounter rate for rarer species that occur in dense flocks (Thaxter  Burton 2009). The cameras are angled at 30 from vertical, and are mounted on a rotating plinth. The angle is useful for providing more than just a plan view of birds, thus giving more potential features to support identification. The plinth is rotated between transects to angle the cameras away from any sun glare, which can be a significant impairment to detection in the resulting images (Thaxter et al. 2016). The cameras record images at a rate of seven frames per second, which means that birds will be visible in about seven frames, depending on a range of factors. An example of the images produced is shown in Figure 3.13.