Figure 1.5 (a) A Van Veen Grab on a sieving table installed on a catamaran workboat. (b) Retrieval of a dredge for kelp to sample epifauna from the same vessel. (Uni Research, Bergen);The sediment characteristics often determine the type of grab or core sampler that can be used. For coarse sediments, the Haps Corer (0.014 m2 with a depth of 50 cm) has been used for softbottom studies on the Swedish west coast (Langhamer 2010), since other kinds of grabs were not able to penetrate the seafloor. The sample surface of both the Van Veen and Day grabs is 0.1 m2, giving a larger sampled area than the Haps Corer and a higher chance of sampling macrofaunal organisms. The Vibrocorer, sampling 0.01 0.007 m2, is mostly used for geological purposes and is more appropriate for coarse sediments.;In some situations andor localities, it may be interesting to monitor changes in coverage of different bottom types and biotopes inside a wind farm. For instance, where wind farms are located in shallow areas with seagrass and kelp forests, it may be useful to map and monitor the impacts of these valuable habitats (Shaskov et al. 2014 Schlppy et al. 2014). Since detailed observations are less important than areal coverage when studying bottom types and habitat distribution, remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) or drop cameras can be appropriate. In a study at the Danish Middelgrunden wind farm, the distributions of Eelgrass Zostera marina and Blue Mussel Mytilus edulis were monitored through scuba diving, showing a strong increase in Eelgrass coverage and a corresponding decline in coverage of mussel beds (Lynge 2004).;At highenergy sites with mixed surface types and a faceted seascape comprising various habitat types, a mix of different gear and sampling approaches may be used. A baseline study was conducted at a planned OWF off the Norwegian coast (Dahlgren et al. 2014). The site is unique in that the seabed had a complex bathymetry dominated by rocky outcrops with patches of boulders, coarse sand and gravel. Dense forests of a kelp, Tangle Laminaria hyperborea, dominated at depths ranging from 5 to 20 m. Deeper sites had bare rocks, stones, pebble or coarse gravel covered by