At the end of life of an existing OWF, repowering seems likely to be an attractive option, ideally incorporating any new technology and research to minimise risks to birds. Alternatively, where decommissioning is to be undertaken and the site restored to the baseline condition, using rehabilitation measures where necessary, there is likely to be an increasing argument for only the partial removal of turbine structures above the sea surface, as a result of the reef effect of turbine bases and scour protection benefiting biodiversity (Smyth et al. 2015 Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). However, the specific value of this for many seabirds, perhaps apart from Great Cormorant and possibly somegulls, is uncertain (Perrow 2019).;Finally, there is an argument, as put forward by May (2017), that given the importance of renewables in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the socioeconomic factors at play, some level of unmitigated residual impact of OWFs on birds may be acceptable. An alternative argument is, however, that given the potential for cumulative and incombination effects and the increasing prospect of populationscale impacts on some species as the offshore wind industry expands rapidly around the globe, and the fact that many birds (and bats) are already subject to a range of anthropogenic pressures, there is a case for the wind industry to enhance its green reputation by ensuring that some funds from all OWFs are routinely put towards the conservation of key species. This could go some way towards offsetting any potential impacts and meeting the objective of the winwin for wildlife and wind farms (Kiesecker et al. 2011).;We are indebted to Lothar Bach, Filipe Canrio and Ricardo Tom, and Roel May for their valuable contributions to this chapter in the form of information boxes. We are also grateful to Centrica Energy and rsted for permission to reproduce Figure 8.3 and Figure 8.4 that were originally part of assessment work for the Race Bank OWF and the Irish Sea Round 3 Zone, respectively, in UK waters.;Ahln, I., Bach, L., Baage, H.J.  Pettersson, J. (2007) Bats and offshore wind turbines studied in southern Scandinavia. Report 5571 by Vindval. Retrieved April 8 2019 from httpswww.naturvardsverket.se Documentspublikationer62055712.pdf;Ahln, I., Baage, H.J.  Bach, L. (2009) Behaviour of Scandinavian bats during migration and foraging at sea. Journal of Mammalogy 90 1318 1323.