abundance and potential displacement of seabirds, aerial surveys using a fastmoving platform are likely to be the preferred method. In contrast, the relatively small area that can be covered by a boat based survey in one day makes this method less attractive. Further, as digital aerial surveys flying above 500 m do not cause disturbance and achieve a very high identification rate, they are especially useful in covering the area affected by multiple neighbouring wind farms.  Boatbased surveys are, however, best suited to provide detailed information on seabird behaviour and flight height. Boats provide an opportunity to measure seabird flight height with some degree of accuracy when supported by laser rangefinders (Borkenhagen et al. 2018 Harwood et al. 2018). There are also a number of environmental parameters that can be measured during boat surveys that may influence seabird distribution at a project site, such as tidal variation, sea salinity and temperature, chlorophyll a and, of course, fish abundance and distribution.  The proportion of area covered by either boatbased or aerial transects may differ between projects in relation to size of the project area as well as abundance and distribution pattern of species of interest. It is recommended that this be at least 10 of the study area (valid effort accounting for glare) (BSH 2013). Modelling techniques, such as the MRSea suite of tools (Scott Hayward et al. 2013), may allow robust predictions of species distribution and densities at lower area coverage, but in order to measure avoidance ranges accurately, sample size inevitably becomes the limiting factor at larger distances from the OWF. Thus, higher coverage may be preferred during construction and operation of the wind farms. Power analysis is an important statistical technique for estimating the power of a given survey design to detect change, if a representative set of survey data is available of known precision and, ideally, error structure (Mackenzie et al. 2017) which can be used to design impact studies at OWFs.  Surveys are usually carried out once or twice per month during the period that the species of interest occur. Most EIA studies require that this is maintained through a whole annual cycle as different species may occur at different times of the year. More frequent surveys may be required during the breeding season.  Weather may restrict the number of surveys that can becompleted in 1 year and, given the large natural interannual fluctuations in seabird numbers and distribution, baseline studies are often conducted over a minimum of 2 years, but there is no international standard on this and consenting authorities in different countries decide differently on their information needs. It is questionable whether 2 years of survey data are sufficient to characterise interannual variation in highly mobile species such as seabirds, and more survey years are recommended.  In areas where more than one wind farm is being built, it may not be possible to monitor the effects on seabirds of each wind farm separately. In such circumstances, it is strongly recommended that monitoring projects be combined to reduce the overall amount of surveying and (in the case of boatbased surveys) of disturbance to seabirds, rather than implemented over different areas, such as has been the case in Germany, encouraged by BSH. Here, almost all seabird and marine mammal monitoring is carried out in clusters in some cases, more than ten projects have agreed on a joint monitoring approach, covering all projects in coordinated boat based and digital aerial surveys. Such an approach is recommended to be adopted in other areas as it is understood to be the best way to assess cumulative impacts from different projects. When covering large survey areas, surveys should extend across the entire survey area in a single day, using more than one platform if needed, as changes in seabird distribution between days may bias survey results when extended over longer periods (Thaxter  Burton 2009). The survey design can achieve finer scale resolution than is possible in one day by repeating surveys, but offsetting transects to fill in between the transects for the first day.;We are grateful to a number of people who contributed to this chapter, in particular Felix Wei, Alex Schubert and Jorg Welcker of BioConsult SH, and to Andrew Harwood, Richard Berridge and Martin Perrow of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd for their additional text. Many people have contributed to the evolution of different methods for census surveys of birds at sea and are referenced as much as possible in the text. Much of the intellectual