Finally, it should be noted that the behaviour of species may vary between locations, while time and weather patterns may also influence the flight behaviour of marine birds (e.g. Kahlert et al. 2012). Intrinsic variation may also exist in patterns of habitat use and environmental interactions between individual birds, ageclasses and sexes. The picture of threedimensional habitat use is therefore likely to be complex and specific to individual locations and developments.;Marine birds are part of a wider ecosystem, being at or near the top of their trophic system. As summarised by Perrow (2019), OWFs have the potential to alter the physical environment, thus causing potential changes to prey resources that seabirds rely on. Such processes are linked particularly to displacement effects (see Displacement and barrier effects, above), but have only occasionally been given separate consideration within impact assessments (but see Forewind 2014). The mechanisms by which species are affected through ecosystem or habitat changes are often poorly known (Perrow 2019). As such, there are few studies for OWFs that have been conducted at a sufficient level of detail (but see Perrow et al. 2011a). Wind farms could, for example, alter the available substrate through the installation of foundations, particularly monopole turbines and scour protection, which could, in turn, create reef habitats for colonising invertebrates and fish, potentially attracting marine birds to a new food supply (Dannheim et al. 2019 Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019). Alternatively, the presence of wind turbines could alter habitat use and spawning and migration of prey species (Gill  Wilhelmsson 2019), thus altering the use of offshore areas by marine birds and mammals (Nehls et al. 2019). Birds may also use offshore structures in novel ways, such as perching and resting (e.g. Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Vanermen  Stienen 2019), which is a form of habitat alteration that could offer advantages such as extending foraging ranges and is already suspected to have occurred for Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo (Vanermen  Stienen 2019).