In Ireland, a sectoral approach to MSP was pursued, addressing offshore renewable energy within an Offshore Renewable Energy Development Plan (OREDP) that assessed areas for technical (i.e. wind, wave and tidal energy, and a combination thereof) and macrositing (i.e. different spatial distributions) alternatives (DCNER 2014). The OREDP was subject to SEA (Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland et al. 2010), with the scope of the SEA determined early in the OREDP process, as both processes areclosely interlinked. In the SEA, three scenarios for the development of offshore renewables to 2030, comprising low (800 MW OWF, 75 MW wave and tidal), medium (2,300 MW OWF, 500 MW wave and tidal) and high (4,500 MW OWF, 1,500 MW wave and tidal) development objectives, as well as a zero alternative, were used to assess the relevant environmental and socioeconomic impacts. The SEA specified environmental effects that were to be dealt with at the subsequent project level through careful micrositing for the different alternatives. Eventually, the zero alternative needed to be rejected, as the environmental and economic risks of not implementing the OREDP were found to be higher (e.g. continued reliance on imported electricity and fossil fuels, less economic investment in supply chains for offshore renewables, potential effects relating to not combating climate change), thus emphasising the necessity to implement the OREDP.;In England and Wales (Kruppa 2007), the Crown Estate was a crucial actor from the very beginning of OWF development, granting relevant leases in the territorial seas as well as licenses in the EEZ, based on tenders in subsequent rounds (Crown Estate 2016). A first round, Round 1, was launched in 2001, clearly serving as a pilot round, with no spatial presettings given and no zoning schemes set up at the time. The Crown Estate assessed bids on the basis of the financial standing of the candidates, their offshore development expertise and their wind turbine expertise (DTI 2002). North Hoyle, Scroby Sands (for results of intensive monitoring see Perrow et al. 2011 Skeate et al. 2012 Perrow 2019) and Kentish Flats OWFs, originating from Round 1, were all realised by 2006 (Crabtree et al. 2015). The dynamic pursuit of climate protection goals in the UK was a major driver in accelerating OWF development and thus Round 1 served in introducing wind projects and paving the way for the offshore wind industry.