Although CRMs are a useful tool to estimate likely collisions of birds with wind turbines, and provide information on the potential environmental impacts of windfarm developments, they also havelimitations. It is important that these are recognised to ensure that the data outputs are used appropriately. Potentially the greatest limitation of CRMs is that they generally assume much about bird behaviour. For example, the majority of models assume a linear relationship between bird abundance and collision risk, which may not be true for all situations (de Lucas et al. 2008 Ferrer et al. 2012) as there may be interactions between topography, species specific behaviour, turbine layout and wind parameters (Barrios  Rodrguez 2004 Smallwood et al. 2009 Ferrer et al. 2012 Schaub 2012). In addition, many of the models include avoidance behaviour in the form of an avoidance rate, which assumes that a certain proportion of those birds on a collision path will take avoiding action before a collision occurs. Most models assume that avoidance behaviour is constant across all individuals within a species, which is unlikely. However, there are limited data on avoidance rates and estimating variability both between and within species is difficult (Cook et al. 2014 2018a).;Models, such as Band (2012), assume a constant flux of birds through a wind farm. Such models assume that there are X birds within the wind farm at any given time, each of which takes Y seconds to fly through the rotor. From these data, it is possible to estimate the total number of birds passing through a wind farm in a day or year based on the speed of the birds, with a mean flight speed typically assumed. However, if the birds are not flying at the reported or constant speed, or not commuting through the wind farm but instead moving tortuously within the area (Patrick et al. 2014), it is possible to overestimate the number of birds flying through the wind farm in a given period. As a consequence, the total number of collisions will be elevated, and these inflated estimates of collision rates can have serious consequences and costs for a windfarm developer. This is likely to be the case also for models that use data from vantagepoint surveys for example, the model developed by the US Fish and Wildlife Service (2013) uses data on the number of expected exposure events. It may be difficult to distinguish whether two observations of a bird are the same individual or different unless birds have distinct and unique marks. This distinction is important because each bird can only collide once, if it is assumed that collision equates to mortality, and if the