Transboundary cooperation lies at the heart of marine spatialplanning  as marine and coastal ecosystems transcend administrative boundaries and steer planning towards wider regional or sea basin considerations (Jay et al. 2016, p. 85). In adopting an ecosystem approach, the MSF Directive calls for a close coordination and coordinated monitoring programmes within a marine region or subregion (Article 11) to facilitate coherence of action across the member states (European Parliament amp European Council 2008). However, Jay et al. (2016) argue for the existence of an apparent dichotomy, which becomes apparent in the MSP Directive as national authorities retain competency for MSP in their waters. For the development and implementation of transnationally coherent and consistent MSP in the North and Baltic Sea region, the EU Commissions Department on Maritime Affairs, DG Mare, supports, inter alia, the cooperation between national maritime planning agencies.;With the MSP Directive (201489EU), all EU coastal states are obliged to draw up maritime spatial plans by 2021. In their planning procedures and management processes, the member states must ensure that the national plans are coordinated with each other and, in particular, take account of transnational issues. Whereas in the North Sea region almost all countries have MSP plans in place, the Baltic Sea countries are in different stages of the planning process, with the only enforced plans in Lithuania and Germany at the time of writing. The member states are involved in several research projects to support the planning process and exchange ideas and information in MSP expert groups such as the EU Member States Expert Group on MSP and the HELCOMVASAB Maritime Spatial Planning Working Group (2019).;With the Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission, otherwise known as the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), founded in 1974, and the OsloParis Convention (OSPAR 1992), there are intergovernmental structures that pursue objectives for the entire Baltic Sea and North Sea and that require crossborder coordination. HELCOM aims to expand crosssectoral cooperation in reaching a good environmental status of the Baltic Sea, regulating marine activities, reducing the discharge of hazardous substances and implementing the ecosystem approach in MSP (HELCOM 2018). In the North Sea, OSPAR is leading international cooperation