3 of development. This includes three of the nine Round 3 zones (hatched areas in England amp Wales) that were not developed. Sites have been developed within the other six Round 3 zones shown as proposed areas. Locations of five of the withdrawn Scottish territorial waters sites (see text) cannot be shown, as shapefiles are no longer available. (Information derived from OSPAR and the Crown Estate. Map of Europe from European Environment Agency);In addition to the two Round 3 zones in Scotland, the Moray Firth and the Firth of Forth, the Scottish Government also released plans in 2010 to develop smaller OWF sites in Scottish territorial waters (STWs), that is, within 12 nautical miles of the Scottish coast (Marine Scotland 2010a) (five of these are shown in Figure 9.4). STWs are controlled directly by the Scottish Government, in contrast to planning applications outside the 12 nautical mile limit, which are handled by the UK Government. Of the ten STW sites, one site was withdrawn almost immediately by the developers because of interference with radar (Courier 2010), followed by three others in 2011. Issues with Kintyre included the proximity to the Campbeltown airport and the difficulties in dealing with local opposition groups (BBC News 2011). Developers withdrew from Solway Firth when the Scottish Government decided that the site was unsuitable for development based on problems with public acceptability and environmental and visual impacts (Marine Scotland 2014, Appendix 5). Wigtown Bay was deemed undevelopable by the Scottish Government following an economic review carried out in 2011 (Marine Scotland 2011) that identified that a wind farm would be likely to have adverse economic impacts on the local economy (Marine Scotland 2014, Appendix 4). Developers also withdrew from a further three sites over a variety of issues, such as ground conditions and challenging wave conditions, as well as environmental considerations (populations of Basking Shark Cetorhinus maximus) in the case of Argyll Array (ScottishPower Renewables 2013), while the developers of Islay and Forth Array preferred to concentrate on other projects (WindPower Monthly 2010 Telegraph 2014). Although the SEA was carried out in parallel with the development of the plan for the STW sites (Marine Scotland 2010b), it did not predict many of the issues behind the loss of the majority (70) of the STW sites initially proposed.