Offshore pile installation by drilling is also considered to be less noisy than impact piledriving. Two main approaches to drilling technology may be distinguished (1) the drivedrilldrive concept and (2) pure drilling solutions. In drivedrilldrive operations, the installation process involves impact piledriving at the start of the process until the hammer meets resistance in a hard bottom layer. Then, the construction team inserts a drilling system in the pile, lowers it to the bottom and uses it to cut a shaft through the hard layers. Finally, the engineers switch back to the impact piledriverto bring the pile to target depth. In pure drilling solutions, construction involves only a drilling device to accomplish the pile installation process. Thus, the authors regard only pure drilling as a lownoise foundation installation technology. However, to reflect the current state of technology, experience with drivedrilldrive operations is also discussed.;The application of pure drilling solutions is limited. Although several companies have worked on adapting existing onshore solutions for the serial installation of offshore piles, none of these technologies is commercially available. Concepts include Ballast Nedams Drilled Concrete Monopile approach (Saleem 2011), which was finally abandoned, and Hochtief and Herrenknechts Offshore Foundation Drilling (Koschinski  Ldemann 2013), where a drill with a cutterhead, operated from a mobile offshore platform, is inserted in the pile and cuts its way down through the seabed regardless of geological properties. Assuming that installation reaches cutting speeds of 3.0 mh (Jung 2013), this would enable monopile installation within one day.;A first estimate of the noise emissions that are associated with this technology was derived in 2008, when a Herrenknecht vertical shaft machine was used to drill a 5 m wide shaft 39 m into a water saturated soil in Naples, Italy. Noise recordings suggest that when transferred to offshore conditions, an SPL of 117 dB re 1 Pa and a peak SPL of 122 dB re 1 Pa can be expected at a distance of 750 m from the drilling site (Rustemeier et al. 2012).;Despite these promising results, the development of pure drilling solutions was not taken further owing to cost considerations. Because of its high cost relative to other installation methods, wind farm developers use drivedrilldrive technology only occasionally, for example, when piles need to be installed in bedrock or substrates with hard bottom layers. Examples include the North Hoyle (2003), Barrow (2005), Teesside (201213) and Gwynt y Mr (201314) OWFs. At North Hoyle, piles were drilled in underlying bedrock after they were first driven through the upper sand and sediment layers. A strong fundamental component at 125 Hz and harmonics up to 1 kHz dominated the emitted frequency spectrum (Nedwell et al. 2003). Unfortunately, the authors could not establish the source level and transmission loss. At Barrow, a pile topdrilling