The marine environment is coming under increasing pressure from human activities such as shipping, oil and gas, and offshore renewable energy developments (Halpern et al. 2008 Korpinen  Andersen 2016). In relation to wind farms, the birds present in the marine environment (Paleczny et al. 2015), including both seabirds and terrestrial or coastal birds migrating or moving over the surface of the sea (see the definition of marine birds in Scope, below), are at risk of a range of impacts, including through direct collision (King 2019), barrier effects and displacement (Vanermen  Stienen 2019), with seabirds also subject to potential indirect and ecosystem effects, particularly through their prey (Perrow 2019). The position of a bird through time can yield valuable information on proximity or overlap with anthropogenic factors, including wind farms (Hart  Hyrenbach 2009 Waggit  Scott 2014 Cleasby et al. 2015 Thaxter et al. 2018a). While traditional survey methods using boats or aircraft (see Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) remain crucial in determining baseline distribution and abundance in the area of interest for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of wind farms, such surveys cannot generally track birds, which requires a sequence of positional data to be gathered (tracking). This is the basic remit of telemetry, as derived from the Greek words tele, meaning far, and metros, meaning measurement. Although the resulting definition of remote measurement of data can therefore cover a range of survey platforms, such as aerial surveys using high definition imagery (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3) as well as radarstudies (e.g. Masden et al. 2010 Molis et al., Chapter 6), the term telemetry is generally associated with the more specific use of animalborne telemetry. In this, the individual itself provides information that is stored or relayed back to the observer, generally via some form of tag, here also referred to as a tracking or telemetry device (Box 4.1), thus allowing the observation of animals from their own perspective as opposed to direct observations from a certain distance (RopertCoudert  Wilson 2005).;Pioneering telemetry studies, for instance using archival depth recorders and capillary tubes, were conducted as early as the 1940s (e.g. Scholander 1940 Eliassen 1960). Since the 1980s, passive integrated responder (PIT) tags have been widely used to study animal movements (Gibbons  Andrews 2004), although as these use communication over very short distances between the tag and receiver, the animal either has to be captured or must pass close to the receiver. For birds in relation to marine environment, such devices have been limited to studying aspects such as nestsite attendance (e.g. Le Maho et al. 1993). Tracking studies that measured the location of animals were also first undertaken in the 1980s (Ropert Coudert  Wilson 2005) using radiotracking and groundbased receivers (Amlaner  McDonald 1980 Kenward 1987 Wanless et al. 1990). Radiotracking has limitations of distance due to signal retention and lineofsight issues, and radio signals cannot penetrate seawater (Wilson  Vandenabele 2012). Paradoxically, this limitation has proved useful in observing the behaviour of diving species, as the gap between signals may be used to indicate diving duration (Wanless et al. 1993). Furthermore, radiotelemetry is often an attractive, or in some cases the only, method available for smaller species, owing to the availability of very small tags. Individual birds that have been tagged with radiotransmitters have also been followed