2 Context and purpose of measurements for offshore wind energy Wind speeds offshore are typically higher and more persistent than those onshore (Pryor and Barthelmie 2001). For these and other reasons, wind turbines installations offshore are increasingly numerous (Rodrigues et al. 2015 Sun et al. 2012) and are increasing not only in number but also in size (both number of turbines deployed, and hubheight and rotor diameter) (Islam et al. 2013 Kaldellis and Kapsali 2013). There are a number of inevitable implications of these tendencies, including; The scale of the wind farms means that one site can not represent the conditions across the entire wind farm even in the relatively homogeneous offshore environment, particularly given that most offshore wind farms have been deployed in or close to the coastal zone (Kaldellis and Kapsali 2013) (in what has been referred to as the nearshore i.e. within 15 km of the shore), where there is considerable spatial variability in flow regimes (Barthelmie et al. 2007 Pryor and Barthelmie 2002).;The costs of installing meteorological masts offshore are high, and it is increasingly challenging to apply the traditional methods for accredited measurements for wind energy (i.e. mount calibrated anemometers on tall meteorological masts (Hasager et al. 2013b Lange et al. 2004)).Hence, other tools including ground based and satelliteborne remote sensing and modeling using either fully prognostic numerical models (e.g. numerical weather prediction models such as WRF (Hahmann et al. 2015)) or linearizedanalytical models (e.g. WAsP, (Barthelmie et al. 1999)) are often used to supplement onsite measurements, for example by providing a longterm context for resource measurements or for interpolating or extrapolating between measurements at different heights or locations (Sempreviva et al. 2009).;From an engineers perspective, a wind farm should be designed to produce as much electrical energy as possible (i.e. the wind farm layout and specific wind turbines selected for a particular deployment are selected to optimize efficient energy extraction) without compromising the structural integrity of the wind turbines (i.e. ensuring an acceptably small probability of turbine failure, wherein two failure modes can be considered sudden exceedance of the material strength and failure due to damage accumulation). From an investors perspective, a wind farm should be designed to maximize the profit margin. Wind is both the source of energy (revenue) and loading (expense) and error or uncertainty in measurements will increase the overall cost of energy (Lantz et al. 2012 Poulsen and Hasager 2016). Therefore, the purpose of onsite wind measurements is to provide information to help both engineers and investors to achieve their goals.;In the following subsections we describe the atmospheric parameters of interest to offshore wind energy in terms of quantifying power production and loads. In the subsequent sections, we describe measurement techniques available for the determination of the atmospheric variables of relevance to the wind energy industry and may also contribute to advancement of fundamental understanding of atmospheric flow in the marine environment. Although we focus exclusively here on atmospheric flow parameters, it should be noted that wave climates also comprise an important component of siting considerations for offshore wind farms, and for example, accurate estimation of windwave alignment, extreme wave conditions and likelihood of sea ice are also critical input parameters to site selection, project viability, and the design and operation of wind farms offshore (Larsn et al. 2015 Shaw 2012 Thomsen 2014).