6 Summary and recommendations for future work Offshore wind deployments have tremendous potential for expansion. For example, the European Wind Energy Association (EWEA) expects 150 GW of offshore wind capacity to be realized in 2030 (Wieczorek et al. 2013), and while the US market is more nascent there is a good resource (Schwartz et al. 2010), there are prospective developments in Massachusetts, Maryland, and Rhode Island waters and an ambitious goal 48 of 10 GW of installed offshore capacity by 2020 in the DoE 2020 plan (Archer et al. 2014). For large offshore wind farms large reductions in economic risk can be achieved by improvements in the accuracy of hubheight wind speed predictions. It has been reported that a decrease in the uncertainty in the sustained wind speed at hubheight of 0.1 ms1 results in a saving worth about 10 million British pounds per year over the lifetime of the wind farm (Hasager et al. 2013b).;This report provides an overview of the variables required to fulfill power and load estimates for offshore wind farms and summarizes the types of measurement strategy that are currently available. While it is apparent that lidarbased technology is becoming the measurement technique of choice, other measurement strategies also have advantages. For example, making longterm measurements with vertical lidar is straightforward in terms of data processing, and can measure above current wind turbine tipheights, but its power requirement is much larger than that of a meteorological mast equipped with cup or sonic anemometers which could be operated to measure wind speeds accurately in the longterm. Similarly, although satellitebased remote sensing does not have the precision of mastbased anemometry or lidars, it does provide longterm assessment of wind speeds over very large areas than can be used to assess relative differences in time and space that would be prohibitively expensive ad logistically challenging using lidar or meteorological masts. Scanning lidar also has a role, particularly as it is starting to be used to quantify wind speeds over large areas  such as from the coast measuring offshore  but it is expensive and challenging in terms of data volume and processing. As also discussed herein, there is a continue need for development of bestpractice guidelines for deployment and use of these new technologies within the wind energy industry.;There is a clear need for improved understanding of the marine boundary layer with a specific focus on the parameters describe above. Neutral stratification and a flat, smooth sea surface are routinely used as assumptions in offshore siting, but are not necessarily a conservative approach to resource estimation or to fatigue load calculations in offshore wind farms (Kalvig et al. 2014). Although there are purposebuilt offshore support platforms (e.g. FINO (MuozEsparza et al. 2012), and the proposed DoE facility at the Chesapeake Light Tower) and tall coastal masts (e.g. the National Test Station of Wind Turbines at Hvsre, Denmark (Floors et al. 2013)), there is a clear need for additional structures in the offshore and coastal environment to allow measurements of wind profiles (through the hubheight and turbine rotor swept area) along with key observations of boundary layer height, and surface fluxes from in situ and groundbased remote sensing instruments. Critically such support structures must comply with current best practice in terms of instrumentation and minimization and careful characterization of flow distortion, and to have sufficient quantity and quality of power supply to enable deployment of a full suite of remote sensing instrumentation. Further, there is a need to transition from shortterm field campaigns to making more representative (AKA longterm, multiyear continuous measurements) and for new methods to contextualize those measurements in the longerterm climate variability, and also to fully integrate measurements of the seasurface (waves, ice etc, e.g. to better understand combine windwave loading