4 Groundbased remote sensing Groundbased remote sensing technologies (e.g. Radar (RAdio Detection And Ranging), Sodar (SOnic Detection And Ranging) and Lidar (LIght Detection And Ranging)) measure the motion of air using the Doppler effect induced by wind tracers on electromagnetic waves. These instruments compare the Doppler shifted frequency between the original and the reflected signal. This frequency shift is transformed to a lineofsight velocity, the magnitude of the wind velocity along the beam direction. Thus, if the light or sound is sent at different angles relative to the zenith, the lineofsight velocity can be decomposed into the three wind speed components using the geometry of the scanning configuration.;Both radar and sodar emit wavelengths similar to the size of turbulent eddies and measure the reflection off the varying temperature structure in the atmosphere, while lidars use laser light in the infrared range and use reflection from atmospheric particles. Doppler radar technologies have not been extensively employed in the wind energy industry (Hirth et al. 2015), and the authors are not aware of any deployments in the offshore environment beyond the RadarSea experiment reported in (Trombe et al. 2014). Sodars have been more extensively employed for atmospheric flow quantification (Bradley (2007) Doviak and Zrni (1993) Emeis (2011) (Rodrigo et al. 2013)), and for wake studies in offshore wind farms (Barthelmie et al. 2003 Barthelmie et al. 2006), and are available from a number of commercial vendors (e.g. Remtech, Atmospheric System Corporation, Metek, Scientec, Second Wind). A number of previous analyses have focused on discussion of the relative merits of sodars and lidars and intercomparison of the resulting wind speed estimates (Bradley et al. 2012 Hasager et al. 2008 Lang and McKeogh 2011). Because of the great potential of, and increased industry interest in, Doppler lidars and an increasing number of deployments in offshore and coastal locations (Hasager et al. 2013b Hasager et al. 2008), herein we focus on Doppler lidars.;Herein we focus on Doppler lidars, but note the existence of direct detection lidars that are also based on transmitting laser pulses into the atmosphere, but instead of recording the Doppler shift, only the backscatter intensity is used to reconstruct the wind speed and direction (e.g. Pentalum Technologies Spidar lidar) (Afek et al. 2013). The sampled time series represents the aerosol backscatter (and thus aerosol density) along the line of sight of the transmitted pulse. The wind speed and direction are derived by tracking aerosol structures, and correlating the backscatter intensity in different locations and times.;Static and scanning groundbased (as well as nacellemounted) Doppler lidars have been extensively employed in fundamental studies of the wind turbine inflow (Wagner et al. 2009) and investigations of the downstream wake field characteristics (Barthelmie et al. 2014). Nacelle mounted lidars have also been exploited for wind forecasting, power curve assessment (Wagner et al. 2014) and adaption of feedforward control strategies (Mikkelsen 2014 Simley et al. 2014).;The major components of a Doppler lidar are shown in Figure 41. The lidar generates and emits a laser beam into the atmosphere. Aerosols in the laser beam path backscatter the light and their motions cause a Doppler frequency shift () in the backscattered beam. Using these aerosols as wind tracers, the lidar detects the Doppler frequency shift in the returned signal to estimate the radial velocity () which is the component of wind velocity in the direction of the line of sight (LOS) (Figure 41)