 Rebecca J Barthelmie 26achieve different measurement purposes (Clifton 2015). For example, Banta et al. (2002) used the VAD technique to estimate wind directions to control the azimuth angle of RHI scans for measuring the vertical structure of wind speed. Krishnamurthy et al. (2013) used multiple stack PPI scans to derive the wind speed distribution on a terrainfollowing surface for wind resource assessment. Compound scans allow observations of complex flows, but they require more sophisticated algorithms to retrieve wind velocities.;The azimuth and elevation angles associated with measurements are recorded with respect to the local east northup coordinates. Therefore, during installation, it is necessary to align the lidar with the true north and level the lidar with the local earth surface. Otherwise, the registered measurements are taken at locations different those expected which introduces errors. Lidars are usually equipped with levels or accelerometers for leveling (pitch and roll). A common method of wind direction alignment for scanning lidars is to use a nearby wind turbine or meteorological mast as a reference hardtarget.;Doppler lidars deployed offshore (typically on support platforms provided by purpose built meteorological masts or transformer or oilgas platforms), where the assumption of horizontal homogeneity generally realized, yield accurate estimates of wind speeds. Typical doppler lidars have a footprint of approximately 11 m2 and a weight of 50 kg. The major challenges to these deployments are generally presented by the power requirements (most Doppler lidars require 50 to 100 W of power, more if heating or cooling is required) and the need to elevate the lidars above the heights that could be impacted by waves and in a fashion where the support structure does not interfere with the line of sight (Courtney and Hasager 2016). Doppler lidars have generally been deployed on fixed platforms, though there have been some ship deployments (Pichugina et al. 2012) and there have been a small number of deployments of vertical pointing lidars on buoys (Mathisen 2013). All commercially available floating lidars are based the technologies from ZephIR and WINDCUBE but with different designs of the floating platforms and algorithms to compensate for the motion of the ocean (Courtney and Hasager 2016).;Quality control should be applied to exclude lidar measurements with large potential errors. Most procedures exclude data with low SNR (since low SNR indicates poor signal quality and large measurement uncertainty) and strong returns from hard targets.;Wind velocity retrieval is an inverse process that is straightforward in simple flows but is still an ongoing research topic in complex flows. Simple flows usually allow simple assumptions of the flow structures that enable the use of linear least squares methods. The most common assumption is for a horizontally homogeneous wind field that is valid for flows over flat and homogeneous terrain. If this assumption is valid, the VAD technique is very accurate in retrieving wind velocities (Browning and Wexler 1968). Vertical profilers use the VAD technique hence, their measurements are accurate and reliable over flat and uniform terrain (Pea et al. 2015b). A vertical pointing beam can be added to VAD scans to provide direct measurement of vertical wind speed to reduce the uncertainty in estimating the vertical wind speed from VAD scans. Because the mean vertical wind speed is close to zero in the atmosphere, it can typically be neglected in wind velocity retrieval (Wang et al. 2015). The assumption of a uniform wind direction can sometimes be made for simple flows. With an additional assumption of zero vertical wind speed, wind velocity retrieval is reduced to the following equation