 Rebecca J Barthelmie 8present at heights of relevance to wind turbines (Mahrt et al. 2013 Nunalee and Basu 2014 Smedman et al. 1996). While remote sensing technologies such as lidarsodar vertical profilers and scanning lidars are able to observe these phenomena, relatively few offshore lidar campaigns have been undertaken (Hasager et al. 2013b Koch et al. 2012 Pichugina et al. 2012), our knowledge of their frequency, intensity and relevance for the wind energy industry remain incomplete.; Turbulence intensity. Turbulence intensity (TI) is defined as the standard deviation of wind speed relative to the mean over a 10minute period. TI is a measure of the strength of turbulent wind fluctuation and is the minimum input to simulate the turbulent wind field for wind turbine fatigue load estimation. Wind turbines are usually designed for one of the three TI categories specified using the TI at   15 m s1 (denoted as ) (Table 21). TI offshore is usually lower than those values specified in (IEC 2005a) due to the low frictional drag from the water surface (often described using the Charnock relationship (Charnock 1955)) and exhibit a complex wind speed dependence. While winddriven waves are the main surface roughness components, offshore TI can be high at relatively low wind speeds when stability effects can be important, decreases to a minimum around wind speeds of 810 m s1 and then increases with wind speed as higher winds speed cause a rougher sea surface (Trk and Emeis 2010 Wang et al. 2014).; Dominant wind direction. Understanding of the distribution of wind directions in power producing wind speeds are required as input to the optimization of wind farm design (i.e. wind turbine layout) (Gonzlez et al. 2014) due to the key importance of turbineturbine interactions (i.e. the wind turbine deep array effect) (Barthelmie and Jensen 2010). Wakes typically dissipate more slowly in the offshore environment due to the prevalence of low ambient turbulence intensity, thus DNVOSJ101 states that wake effects in wind farms will often dominate the fatigue loads in offshore wind turbine structures. A larger separation distance between two adjacent wind turbines can be made along the prevailing wind direction in order to reduce power lost through wake effects (Barthelmie et al. 2013).; Wind shear. Wind shear (i.e. the change of horizontal mean wind speed with height) plays an important role in determining the flow across the rotor plane (and thus is an important factor in the periodic loading of a wind turbine contributing to the fatigue loads (Dimitrov et al. 2015 Sathe et al. 2013)), and is critical for vertical extrapolation of wind speeds for wind resource assessment and wind load calculation (Badger et al. 2016 Barthelmie and Pryor 2006 Hasager et al. 2013b).