 Rebecca J Barthelmie 34shape factor and the power density with 10 uncertainty at 95 confidence interval, respectively (Barthelmie and Pryor 2003 Pryor et al. 2004) assuming every scene is random in time and that wind speeds are accurately retrieved. The uncertainty in power density estimation can be reduced by adding climatological wind data from numeral models and scatterometers through the wind class method (Badger et al. 2010) and the strategic sampling approach (Beaucage et al. 2011). Note that SARbased wind speed is at 10 m height therefore, it needs to be extrapolated to the hub height for wind resource assessment. One approach to this employs the MoninObukhov length and the atmospheric boundary height from numerical models with a unified wind profile law (Badger et al. 2016 Badger et al. 2012).;In addition to wind resource assessment, the high resolution enables studies of mesoscale flow structures with SAR wind mapping. SAR data have been used to observe wake deficit of large offshore wind farms (Christiansen and Hasager 2005 Christiansen and Hasager 2006). The detected wake characteristics were consistent with insitu observations and model predictions. Furthermore, it was found that wind speed deficit could extend to 520 km downstream of the wind farm depending on the atmospheric conditions and the number of wind turbines in operation. In addition to satellitedeployment, SAR has also been installed on aircraft and used to undertake measurements of flow variability in the coastal zone and whole windfarm wakes downstream of the Horns Rev offshore wind farm (Hasager et al. 2013a).;Scatterometers were developed to observe wind vectors over ocean surface using multiple antennas emitting and receiving microwave signals with different viewing angles relative to the wind direction. A detailed review of scatterometer applications can be found in (Liu 2002). Scatterometers have large swath widths hence, they can provide two samples per day at one location. However, scatterometers have relatively low spatial resolution. For example, the SeaWinds scatterometer on NASAs QuickSCAT satellite, which has provided consistent and extensive wind data from 1999 to 2009 for global ocean wind research, has the swath of 1800 km and the spatial resolution of 25 km. Other scatterometers, such ASCAT and OSCAT, have the similar swath width and spatial resolution.;Wind speed and direction are estimated at 10 m height by fitting the observed NRCS to scatterometer specific GMFs and assuming neutral atmospheric conditions. Rain causes false high returns and introduce positive bias in wind speed because it changes sea surface and backscatters the radar microwave (Hilburn et al. 2006). Changes in sea surface temperature can cause variation in water viscosity and atmospheric stability and consequently cause uncertainty in wind retrieval. Ocean currents can also introduce errors in the retrieved wind speed (Dickinson et al. 2001). The error standard deviations of scatterometerbased wind speed and direction relative to buoy data and model simulations are about 1.5 m s1 and 15, respectively (Hasager et al. 2008 Wentz and Smith 1999 Winterfeldt et al. 2010). One of the most detailed evaluations of QuickSCAT measurements at three locations in the North Sea (conducted with sample sizes of several thousand individual measurements) found mean biases (in situ minus satellite) are close to zero for wind speed and 2.7 for wind direction with a standard deviation of 1.2 m s1 and 15 respectively (Karagali et al. 2014).;Because of the coarse spatial resolution, scatterometer data are less suitable than SARs for wind farm sitting. NRCSs of pixels near the coast are affected by land surface and hence the derived winds speeds have large uncertainty and are insufficiently accurate for wind resource assessment (Furevik et al. 2011). However,