In the field, IEC standard IEC 61400121 2005 provides a procedure to define the accuracy class for groundbased lidar used for 10minute mean wind speed measurements over flat terrain (see summary in Figure 44). In brief in the relative lidar error is derived from the difference between wind speed measurements from lidars and cup anemometers with high accuracy and is assumed to have linear relationships with the environmental variables such as wind shear and turbulence intensity. This assumption is the result of numerous lidar verification studies (e.g., Gottschall et al. (2012) Lindelw et al. (2008)). Then ordinary least squares regression is applied to each pair of an environmental variable and the relative error to estimate the slope. Based on the significance of the fit, only the influential environmental variables are kept. The sensitivity of lidar measurements to an environmental variable is then defined as the product of the fitted slope and a given range of that environmental variable. The final accuracy class is defined as the half of the quadrature sum of the sensitivities of all the influential variables. The standard requires the accuracy class of a specific lidar should be given by applying the same procedure (given in Error! Reference source not found. ) by at least three lidars at two sites.;4.2.2 Installation and scanning geometry design;To meet a measurement purpose, a scanning geometry is configured on a lidar during site installation. Range height indicator (RHI) and plan position indictor (PPI) are the two basic scanning geometries that can be used to form other complicated scanning geometries. A PPI scan varies the azimuth angle with a fixed elevation angle and therefore takes measurements on a conical surface (Figure 45). Single stack PPI scans are commonly used to study flow structures on horizontal planes such as wind turbine wakes (Aitken et al. 2014 Wang and Barthelmie 2015) and 2dimensional mountain flows (Choukulkar et al. 2012). A low elevation angle should be used for these applications such that the scanned conical surface is