21  Rebecca J Barthelmiewith the bin size M. A spectrum is estimated for each gate and a radial velocity is derived from the spectrum to present the wind velocity at the center of that range gate. A pulsed lidar can provide radial velocity measurements at multiple range gates simultaneously, but the quality of measurement deteriorates with increasing range distance because the signal weakens according to the inverse square law.; A Continuous Wave (CW) lidar measures radial velocity by detecting the Doppler frequency shift in the backscattered signal from continuously emitted laser beams with stable power. It processes the returned signal from a volume centered at the laser focal point therefore, a CW lidar measures the radial velocity at only the focal point at one time.; Vertical profiling lidars are specifically designed to measure vertical profiles of wind velocity up to heights of about 200 m with vertical resolution of about 20 m. They are easy to set up and provide readytouse wind velocity measurements. The most widely used vertical profiler lidars in wind energy are the ZephIR300 and WINDCUBE v2.; Scanning lidars can probe the atmospheric flow in any direction usually in the hemisphere above the lidars using a twoaxis optical scanner. Scanning lidars can measure wind velocities on a horizontal plane, on a vertical plane or in 3dimenional space. However, in order to make a good use of scanning lidars, expertise is needed in terms of scanning geometry design and post data processing. Commercially available scanning lidars include Galion, Halo, WINDCUBE and WindTracer.;Spatial resolution There are two types of spatial resolution. The first is geometric resolution () which is the separation between two measurements. A CW lidar realizes its geometric resolution by rapidly adjusting its focal length, while the geometric resolution of a pulsed lidar is the size of a range gate determined by the sampling rate (Ts) and the sample number (M) per gate. The second spatial resolution is the physical resolution () that represents the spatial extent of a radial velocity measurement. For a CW lidar the physical resolution increases quadratically with the focal length (Ahn and Fessler 2003 Sonnensc and Horrigan 1971). For example, for the ZephIR,  increases from 7.5 m to 58.4 m when the focal length increases from 50 m to 150 m. The physical resolution for a pulsed lidar is the sum of the geometric resolution and the width of the emitted pulse (Banakh and Smalikho 2013) and therefore it is invariant with range distance. The resolutions above are defined for the measured radial velocity on laser beam direction and they are often called the probe volume of lidar measurements. In practice, wind velocities are estimated from a scanning geometry that covers a large volume in the atmosphere, which is referred to as the measurement volume.;Temporal resolution A radial velocity is commonly derived from an averaged spectrum to improve the measurement accuracy. The averaging period defines the temporal resolution of a lidar measurement, although it should be noted that this will differ greatly from the temporal resolution when the measurement volume is considered. For a CW lidar, each individual spectrum is derived from the signal in a time window