(1)where  is the wind speed at some measurement height  and  is the power law exponent (Emeis 2012). Wind shear in the offshore wind turbine design standard IEC (2009) is specified by Eq. (1). The value of  is set to 0.14 for the Normal Wind Profile and 0.11 for extreme wind conditions. However, the shape of the wind profile changes with stability conditions that vary seasonally offshore and surface conditions which varies with offshore wind speed (Barthelmie et al. 2005)  therefore, the value of  is a dynamic quantity that varies in an hourly to seasonal scale as a function of wind speed and atmospheric stability (Ernst and Seume 2012). The variation of wind speed with height can also be described using the logarithmic wind approximation, derived based on the MoninObukhov similarity theory (shown in (2) for neutral conditions); (2)where  is the surface friction velocity, 0 is the surface roughness length,  is the von Krmn constant (0.4). Under nonneutral conditions, the wind profile can be modeled by adding to Eq. (2) a correction term that is a function of height and MoninObukhov length (Holtslag et al. 2015 Stull 1988). The logarithmic law and the associated stability correction are only valid in the surface layer which is approximately the lowest 10 of the atmospheric boundary layer (Gryning et al. 2007). Boundary layer heights are typically lower offshore hence, wind turbines offshore extend beyond the surface layer into the Ekman layer, and thus unified vertical wind profile laws that describe wind profiles above the surface layer have been developed (as described by Emeis (2014)). However, a full description of the drivers of variations in the vertical variation of wind speed in the offshore and coastal zone remains incomplete in part because of additional confounding influences from the role of humidity fluxes in dictating stability in the nearsurface layer (Barthelmie et al. 2010), and the presence of internal boundary layers (due to the surface discontinuity at the coast) (Garratt 1990).;Where h10 m, T10  10 minutes, V10  10 m wind speed at height, h. This approximation implicitly assumes a pseudologarithmic profile and thus nearneutral stability and that z and h lie within the surface layer.;While the wind parameters mentioned above are necessary for energy production prediction and fatigue load estimation, the following extreme wind conditions need to be specified for wind turbine ultimate load calculation (IEC 2005a). Two types of extreme wind conditions are considered. The first type is based on the extreme value theory and it describes rare events over a period of several years (e.g., 50 year return period wind speed). The second type is related to turbulence and it represents rare events that might happen