 Rebecca J Barthelmie 18anemometers and propeller anemometers. It also describes an acceptance test and unambiguous methods for measuring the starting threshold, distance constant, transfer function and offaxis response of a rotating anemometer in a wind tunnel.; ASTM D601196, Determining the Performance of a Sonic AnemometerThermometer. This test method covers the determination of the dynamic performance of a sonic anemometerthermometer that employs the inverse time measurement technique for velocity or speed of sound, or both. Performance criteria include (a) acceptance angle, (b) acoustic pathlength, (c) system delay, (d) system delay mismatch, (e) thermal stability range, (f) shadow correction, (g) velocity calibration range, and (h) velocity resolution.; ISO 16622, Meteorology  Sonic AnemometersThermometers  Acceptance Test Methods for Mean Wind Measurements, defines test methods of the performance of sonic anemometersthermometers. It is applicable to designs measuring two or three components of the wind vector within an unlimited (360) azimuthal acceptance angle.;There are also a number of best practice recommendations regarding instrument deployment on meteorological masts. The International Electrotechnical Commission specification IEC 61400121 proposes a mathematical model for anemometer boom lengths to minimize upstream and downstream flow distortions based on computational fluid dynamic simulations. IEC (2005b) recommends that flow distortions due to the meteorological mast should be kept below 1.0 which requires a boommounted anemometer to be no closer than 6 times the mast width (i.e., 6RbLm in Figure 35). IEC (2005b) provides formulas to calculate the separation distance between the meteorological mast and the measurement point for both tubular towers and lattice masts required for a given accuracy. The IEC standard also requires cup anemometers to be mounted at least 20 times the boom diameter above the boom to achieve 0.5 distortion.;Figure 35 Simulated wind speed around the lattice meteorological mast used at FINO3 from Fabre etal. (2014). The freestream wind speed is 15 ms1.