According to wind energy industry guidelines (e.g. IEC (2005a)), measurements are taken to obtain the following wind parameters for offshore wind farm design; Mean wind speed. The 10minute mean horizontal wind speed () is used to represent the mean motion of flow, and a detailed description of the probability distribution of 10minute wind speeds at the hub height is the minimum requirement for wind resource assessment. The twoparameter Weibull distribution is most commonly used to represent the probability distribution of sustained wind speeds offshore (Barthelmie and Pryor 2003 Pryor et al. 2004) with typical shape factors (k) of approximately 2.0 for offshore sites (Grilli and Spaulding 2013). In locations with a large seasonal variability or a mixed wind climate, the wind speed distribution can be represented by the doublepeak Weibull distribution (Burton et al. 2011).;Although wind speeds offshore (away from the coast) do not exhibit the diurnal cycle seen onshore primarily due to the large heat capacity, seasonal variability is present as the result of the passage of synoptic atmospheric systems in combination with the seasonality in sea surface temperatures (Barthelmie et al. 1996 Emeis 2012). In the midlatitudes there is also substantial interannual (and interdecadal) variability in wind climates (Pryor and Barthelmie 2003 Schoof and Pryor 2014) due to the action of internal climate modes (e.g., North Atlantic Oscillation (Marshall et al. 2001) and El Nio Southern Oscillation (Enloe et al. 2004)) in modifying stormtracks and frequencies. A ruleofthumb used in the past to approximate the interannual variability in Europe was to assume a value of 6 variability in mean annual wind speeds (van Hulle et al. 2010). But the magnitude of the effect is likely highly geographically variable and a strong function of spatial averaging. For example, Pryor et al. (2006) used areaaveraged annual wind indices to investigate interannual variability across Europe based on reanalysis data and found that there is a significant spatial variation and an inverse relation between latitudes north and south of 45 N. Thus wind resource estimation should optimally be based on multiple years of measurements taken at the hub height, and will be subject to increased uncertainty due to use of short measurement records. To gain information about the degree to which the in situ measurements represent the wind climate a wind farm is likely to experience (including these longer timescales), in situ observations of offshore wind speeds can be supplemented by those derived from satellite measurements andor modeling tools (Hahmann et al. 2015).;Given the size of offshore wind turbines and wind farms, measurements at the hub height at a single location are not sufficient for wind resource assessment and wind farm design. The change in surface (roughness, humidity, temperature, topography) conditions from land to sea or in sea surface temperature causes the internal boundary layer to develop at offshore locations near the coast, resulting in spatial gradients of wind speed in the horizontal and discontinuity in the vertical (Barthelmie et al. 2007 Mahrt et al. 2004). Thus, far from being a uniform wind field, it is very complex to model and measure offshore wind fields, particularly in the nearshore and coastal zone. For example, sea breezes can be observed offshore at a distance of a few 100 km in tropical region and 2050 km in midlatitudes (Emeis 2012). Mesoscale lowlevel jets (LLJ) (a sharp, temporally sustained, maximum in the wind speed profile within the lowest few kilometers of the troposphere) can extend over hundreds of kilometers in the horizontal and have been observed in a large number of coastal regions due to the thermal contrast between land and sea (Ranjha et al. 2013). At least in some locations these LLJ can be