5 Satellitebased remote sensing Ocean wind mapping has been undertaken using passive microwave SSMI (Special Sensor MicrowaveImager), scatterometer and synthetic aperture radar (SAR) (Hasager et al. 2013a). The principle of operation of passive microwave SSMI retrieval of wind speed is based on the concept that the amount of microwave energy emitted from the ocean surface is a function of wave structure and foam coverage which are, in turn, dictated by the nearsurface wind speed (Goodberlet et al. 1989 Mears et al. 2001). The biggest advantage of SSMI is the long available data record (1987 onwards) but only wind speed is retrieved and the coverage is poor in the coastal zone, thus this product has not been widely used in the wind energy industry. Both wind scatterometers and SAR are active microwave radars that emit microwave pulses and measure the intensity of their reflection from the oceanwater surface. The intensity of the backscattered signal, which is quantified by the normalized radar cross section (NRCS), is related to sea surface roughness elements consisting of capillary and shortgravity waves that are generated by surface wind stress. Wind retrieval is based on Geophysical Model Functions (GMFs) that are empirically developed relationships between the wind velocity and NRCS (Hersbach et al. 2007 Stoffelen and Anderson 1997). The physical basis for GMFs is the relationship between the surface friction velocity and NRCS. The retrieved wind speed at 10 m above the sea surface is estimated assuming the logarithmic wind profile (section 2). Because microwave radiation can penetrate clouds and precipitation, satelliteborne radar sensors can provide observations under all weather conditions. The technical comparison between the wind data from scatterometer and SAR is given in Table 51 (Badger et al. 2012). Advantages and disadvantages of wind data retrieved from these two radars and their applications in wind energy (which are largely confined to wind resource assessment and full array wake studies) are described in following two subsections (see a comprehensive list of dataset available for resource assessment given in (Shaw 2012)).;Table 51 Technical specification of wind data from scatterometer and synthetic aperture radar based on (Badger et al. 2012).;A full description of SARbased wind observations is provided in Dagestad et al. (2013), here we focus on providing a brief prcis of satelliteborne SAR for wind energy applications.