 0 is the expected radial velocity and its definition depends on the purpose of measurements. In the case of vertical profilers for wind resource assessment, 0 is the 10minute mean radial velocity associated with a beam orientation.;   is the fluctuation component due to turbulence. If the purpose of measurements is the instantaneous wind velocity at a location, this term is equal to zero. However, if the purpose is to measure the mean wind velocity, this term is the major source of uncertainty (Wang et al. 2016a).;  is the random error in radial velocity measurements. This random error is the result of the radial velocity estimation from the discretely sampled returned signal and its standard deviation is mainly a function of SNR and independent sample number used for radial velocity estimate (Frehlich and Yadlowsky 1994).;  is the bias in radial velocity measurements. Radial velocity estimate assumes that in the probe volume the wind field is homogenous and stationary and aerosols are evenly distributed. Wind shear violates this assumption and introduce bias in radial velocity measurements. Weak signal can also cause bias (Frehlich and Yadlowsky 1994).;The errors mentioned above will propagate to the estimated wind velocity through the inverse method. If the errors in the measured radial velocities are known, the uncertainty in the estimated wind velocity can be derived using existing error propagation theory. However, often time additional errors will be introduced and should be accounted for when the assumptions made for the inverse method is not valid. Therefore, uncertainty quantification of lidar measurement requires knowledge of external conditions such as wind shear, veer and turbulence. For applications of vertical wind profilers over flat terrain, readers should refer to IEC 61400121 2015 for uncertainty quantification methods. For lidar applications in complex flows, it is difficult to evaluate the uncertainty of lidar measurements with reference anemometers because the spatial coverage of lidar measurements is much larger than anemometers. Researchers have used the measurements from one lidar to evaluate the wind velocities retrieved from other lidars positioned at a different location (Xia et al. 2008). Another method is to take virtual lidar measurements in a wind field simulated with large eddy simulation models and evaluate the uncertainty or performance of a scanning geometry and a wind velocity retrieval method by comparing the retrieved wind velocities with the true wind velocities from the simulation (Stawiarski et al. 2015).;Multiple studies have evaluated lidar (and sodar) retrieved horizontal wind speeds relative to cup and sonic anemometers (Table 41) and have sought to make recommendations to optimize scan geometries to improve the accuracy of the wind speeds (e.g. (Wang et al. 2015)).