 Rebecca J Barthelmie 10within a 10minute period (e.g., extreme gust). An estimate of the first type of extreme is typically derived from longterm observations of the mean wind speeds (e.g. from buoys or coastal meteorological stations), reanalysis data or targeted mesocale modeling (Larsn et al. 2013), whereas the second type is typically estimated from empirical approximations (models) and siting characteristics, since direct determination would require longterm measurements with fast response sensors such as sonic anemometers. A range of blended extremes is also considered within the wind energy industry. For example, the extreme coherent gust structure from the International Wind Turbine Design Standard IEC6140012005 consists of a simultaneous gust and wind direction change as an important extreme loading case (Storey et al. 2014).; 50year return period wind speed. IEC (2005a) uses the reference 10minute sustained wind speed that has the probability of occurrence once every 50 years to specify the wind turbine class (Table 2 1) therefore, wind turbines of class I, II and III are designed to withstand the extreme wind speed 50.0, 42.5 and 37.5 m s1 with the probability of once every 50 years, respectively. The classical method for this value is based on the generalized extreme value distribution fitted to annual maxima from at least 20 years of data (Coles et al. 2001), although the parameters from the Weibull distribution can be used to derive estimates of the parameters from the Gumbel distribution and thus the 50year return period wind speed (Pryor et al. 2012). When longterm data are not available, alternative methods can be used to estimate the extreme wind speed (Coles et al. 2001 Palutikof et al. 1999).; Extreme gust. Gust is the temporary change in wind speed and it can be characterized by its rise time, magnitude and duration (IEC 2005a). In the wind turbine design standard, the magnitude of the extreme operating gust is specified as;1  0.1 (4)where 1 is the standard deviation of wind speed and  is the ratio of the rotor diameter to the turbulence length scale. The term 1 is the 1year return period extreme wind speed which is defined as the peak gust with tsecond duration (,) and the running averaging time t  3. The peak gust is commonly related to the mean and standard deviation of wind speed using the following (Holmes 2001); Extreme wind shear. Extreme shear can lead to not only extra loading on the turbine (Sathe et al. 2013), but also reduced power production (Brower 2012). It is defined as a transient variation in the wind speed profile, either horizontally or vertically, across the rotor area (IEC 2005a). Both can be calculated from the power law exponent, hub height wind speed, turbulence parameters and the rotor diameter.; Extreme direction change. The term extreme wind direction change here refers to an abrupt but sustained change in wind direction. Lateral and longitudinal turbulence are primary and secondary contributions to shortterm direction changes (Larsen and Hansen 2008), while sustained changes in wind direction are often associated with the passage of mesoscale or synoptic meteorological fronts. A direction change faster than the wind turbine yawing speed (e.g., 0.5 deg sec1 in Kim and Dalhoff