 The uncertainty related to the calibration before a measurement campaign. This type of uncertainty is evaluated using the standard errors of the calibrated slope and offset from several wind tunnel tests.; The uncertainty related to the calibration after a measurement campaign. The post calibration checks whether there is any variation in the slope and offset used during the measurement campaign. The maximum difference (up to 0.2 m s1) between the wind speed based on the pre and post calibration should be used to quantify this type of uncertainty.; The uncertainty related to a cup anemometers operational characteristics such as the distance constant. This type of uncertainty is quantified in terms of cup anemometer classification. A cup anemometer is classified in terms of the class type and class number. The class type specifies the site conditions (e.g., flat or complex) in which a cup anemometer is used. Different site conditions imply different mean wind field and turbulence conditions. The class number represent the maximum deviation of cup anemometer measurements from the calibrate values. This number is usually derived from numerical simulation with specific external conditions by manufacturers and needed for uncertainty calculation. For more details, reader can refer to Annex I in IEC (2005b) and Pedersen et al. (2006).; The uncertainty related to the mounting of a cup anemometer. Without mast flow distortion correction 1.5 uncertainty needs to be added to cup anemometer measurements. If flow distortion correction is applied, the uncertainty level can be reduced. Methods for estimating flow distortion can be found, for example, in Westerhellweg et al. (2012) and Farrugia and Sant (2013).;In addition to those instrumentrelated uncertainties, atmospheric turbulence can also introduce uncertainty in the derived statistics such as the mean and standard deviation of wind speed. This type of uncertainty is a function of the turbulence integral timelength scale given the averaging period is fixed to 10 minutes (Lenschow et al. 1994). The implications of these error sources (most of which also apply to other types of anemometers) are firstly that they should be considered when selecting an instrumentation suite and support structure and undertaking operational maintenance of offshore deployments, and secondly that they should be fully considered when using such observations for wind energy applications.;Anemometer calibration and other requirements have been articulated in a number of international standards (and in recommendations from the National Institutes for Standards and Technology (e.g. NIST Handbook 150)). For example