 Rebecca J Barthelmie 16and are subject to flow distortion due to the probe head that influence the accuracy of the fluxes, vertical velocities and highorder moments of the horizontal flow. The transducers upwind of a sonic anemometer can cause flow distortion, affecting the measurements from the downwind transducers. The flow distortion depends on the arrangement of the transducers (i.e., orthogonal and nonorthogonal arrangement) and the turbulence intensity (Kochendorfer et al. 2012). While the flow distortion can be minimized by proper placement of the transducers, wind tunnel calibrations can provide correction algorithms to account for the effect of flow distortion on measurements (Grelle and Lindroth 1994 Nakai and Shimoyama 2012). If a sonic anemometer is tilted, there can also be crosscontamination in the velocity components and variations in horizontal flow can be erroneously recorded as fluctuations in the vertical velocity (Wilczak et al. 2001). The factory calibration for this effect is normally performed in low turbulence conditions in a wind tunnel and does not hold in more turbulent conditions (Hgstrm and Smedman 2004). Therefore, it is important to apply corrections to the measurements if turbulent conditions are experienced. Vickers and Mahrt (2006) found that vertical wind speeds are sensitive to the tilt correction applied to the measurements from sonic anemometers. Moreover, because the corrections are based on the assumption of zero longterm vertical wind speed, they do not allow for vertical motion from persistent horizontal divergence. They found that the tilt angle method (Kyaw Tha Paw et al. 2000) produced the smallest errors, but suggested using data from several anemometers and mass continuity to estimate the vertical wind speed whenever possible as this was the method that produced the most realistic results.;Because cup anemometers are the most commonly used instruments for offshore wind energy development, here we focus on deployment for this type of anemometer and direct the reader to Aubinet et al. (2012) for discussion of sonic anemometer installation and operation.;Flow interference with the meteorological mast is a major error source for insitu measurements (Fabre et al. 2014 Westerhellweg et al. 2012). Given the measurement heights required for offshore wind energy applications, lattice masts (Figure 31) are most commonly used to support meteorological instrumentation at different heights, although a range of mast structures is available (including solid cylindrical towers). As mentioned above, the meteorological mast causes flow distortion, resulting in upwind retardation, lateral acceleration and downstream wake when the air passes the mast (Hansen and Pedersen 1999) (Figure 35) (see detailed discussion in IEC 6140012 Annex G  Mounting of instruments on the meteorological mast). The effect of the downwind wake from the support structure will always exist, although the amount of distortion depends principally on the solidity of the mast and installed objects, and can be minimized by careful mounting of cup anemometers. A simple solution to minimize wake effects is to install two cup anemometers on alternate sides of the meteorological mast and conditionally sample the resulting data streams to obtain a freestream wind speed according to the wind direction. If one of the anemometers fails, correction can still be made with models developed from the observations made when both anemometers were working (Farrugia and Sant 2013 Westerhellweg et al. 2012). Note that IEC (2005b) requires two cup anemometers with the same design at each height for consistency verification. In general, placing anemometers sufficiently far away from meteorological masts and booms can reduce the effect of the lateral acceleration and upwind retardation.