Calibration is required for each individual cup anemometer to define the slope and offset that linearly relate the wind speed to the angular velocity (see detailed discussion in (Eecen and Noord 2005)) and should be undertaken in a manner that complies with the standard procedure in (IEC 2005b). It is preferable for the calibration to be conducted in the wind tunnel, but calibration can also be done in the field. Calibration uncertainty comprises two components the statistical uncertainty of the wind speed measurement and those that arise from changes in operating conditions (e.g. changes in air pressure) and factors such as digital conversion influences. Tenminute mean wind speed measurements with wellconstructed and maintained cup anemometers deployed on a support structure with minimal flow distortion in flat homogeneous terrain are highly repeatable. A comprehensive field evaluation of 37 productionmode operational cup anemometers reported correlation coefficients  0.999895 (median value), and a standard deviation of gain values  0.003 ms1 and of offset values of  0.01 ms1 as measured against a reference cup anemometer. The same study found that at a wind speed of 8 ms1, the average error (again relative to the reference cup anemometer) was  0.1 (Paulsen et al. 2007). Due to wear and tear, an aging cup anemometer is likely to experience deviation from the originally calibrated transfer function (Pindado et al. 2012). Therefore, frequent recalibration and maintenance maybe necessary to ensure high accuracy of cup anemometer measurements at a frequency dependent on their type and deployment context. Deployment and maintenance of meteorological instrumentation in marine environments is particularly challenging due to deposition of sea spray on instruments and the associated corrosion. Thus more frequent replacementmaintenance of cup anemometers (and other equipment) may be required to ensure high accuracy measurements.;A wind vane is commonly a flat plat that can rotate to align with the wind direction (Figure 32). The flat plat is usually balanced by a counterweight on the other end (Figure 32). Wind vanes operate on the principle that the dynamic pressure due to the wind causes a static force on a plate if the plate is not exactly aligned with the wind direction. The direction of the arm of a mechanical wind vane is typically determined from a mechanical switch, or an optical encoder, or a precision potentiometer. A good wind vane should be statically balanced and have a low inertia of momentum, a low bearing friction, and a high damping ratio such that the wind vane will not overshoot too much when wind direction changes. The most common source of error is misalignment (to the North) during installation.;A sonic anemometer measures the travel time of an acoustic signal over a fixed path between a pair of transducers oriented into different directions (e.g., Figure 34) to determine the wind velocity component parallel to the path that can in combination be used to measure the three components of wind velocity in addition to the virtual temperature at high frequency (1050 Hz, Kochendorfer et al. (2012)) and therefore can respond to rapid flow variations. Sonic anemometers can be deployed to measure mean horizontal wind speeds with very high accuracy and at high frequency (Coquilla et al. 2010) (permitting detailed description of gusts). The ability of 3D sonic anemometers to accurately measure changes in wind direction and gusts, and their resistance to mechanical failures and icing, spurred the US National Weather Service to change all Automated Surface Observation Systems (ASOS) to icefree sonic anemometers during the early 2000s. They also permit quantification of higher moments of the 3D flow and the vertical heat and momentum fluxes. Sonic anemometers have no movable parts hence, they are more durable and require less maintenance than cup and propeller anemometers. However, sonic anemometers are not accurate in rain