3 Insitu measurements Insitu measurements have been used in the wind energy industry for decades. Although other types of measurement support structure have been considered, insitu measurements of wind speed and direction have typically been made by anemometers and wind vanes mounted on multiple long booms attached to meteorological masts most of which employ a lattice structure (e.g. the FINO platforms in the North Sea) ( Figure 31). Wind speed and direction are commonly sampled every second (or more frequently in the case of the sonic anemometers) and processed to output the mean, standard deviation and maximum (minimum) for each 10minute period (consistent with conventions summarized in section 2), which are used to estimate the probability distribution of sustained wind speeds, turbulence intensity and peak gusts, respectively. Sources of erroruncertainty in anemometry include the effects of the support structure (tower), boom and other mounting components (e.g. clamps) in addition to the anemometer design, turbulent characteristics of the flow and the instrument calibration, maintenance and challenges such as the occurrence of icing andor deterioration of the anemometer due to erosioncorrosion (e.g. due to sea spray deposition). Therefore, best practice is required not only for good instrument design to achieve high measurement accuracy, but also for good meteorological mast design and proper instrument placement to reduce the effect of the flow interference on measurement accuracy. It is worthy of note that in addition to installations made with a primary purpose of making in situ measurements of the flow for wind energy applications, a number of resource studies have also employed wind speed and direction data from instruments mounted on buoys. For the U.S. sites these data are managed by the National Data Buoy Center, and the instrumentation and buoys are maintained by the CoastalMarine Automated Network (CMAN), the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) National Ocean Service (NOS), the National Weather Service (NWS), or the Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory (GLERL). These buoys are equipped with propeller anemometers (usually mounted at 2 or 10m) and report 8minute average wind speeds once hourly. The following is a brief description of insitu measurements for offshore wind energy development for the purpose to obtain bankable data that must be compliant at minimum with standards issued by IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission), IEA (International Energy Agency) or MEASNET (Measuring Network of Wind Energy Institutes).;Figure 31 Offshore meteorological mast FINO3. (Photo source www.fino3.de)