2  , 2  (12)where , 2 is the variance of radial velocity in the probe volume. Based on the above it is clear that for a given lidar, accuracy of lidar radial velocity measurement mainly depends on the aerosol concentration in the atmosphere in terms of the backscatter coefficient and the atmospheric transmission coefficient. The focal length can be adjusted in order to improve the accuracy at a location or region of interest.;For a CW lidar, because the signal is mainly from the focal point, its measurements always have high SNR and therefore sufficient accuracy if other assumptions are valid in the probe volume (e.g., uniform wind field in the probe volume).;Figure 43 SNR and range relationship derived from the medians of 4600 measurements from two days and predicted using Eq. (9).;Maximum range The maximum range is defined here as the range distance beyond which the measurement uncertainty (the standard error) is higher than a threshold value. Because of the relationship between the standard error and SNR, SNR is typically used to set up a threshold value to filter bad quality data. A threshold value of SNR is usually recommended by lidar manufacturers (e.g., 20dB for the Galion lidar). The dependence of SNR on the aerosol properties seen in Eq. (9) illustrates that the maximum range varies with atmospheric conditions such as aerosol backscatter, turbulence refractive index and humidity (Aitken et al. 2012).;To retrieve wind velocities from the lidarmeasured radial velocities, a lidar measurement involves (i) designing a scanning geometry to measure radial velocities and (ii) applying an inverse method to estimate wind velocities. Details of scanning geometry design and wind velocity retrieval for single lidar applications are given in this section. Here we are assuming that the lidar is groundbased. For discussion of nacelle based lidar operation see;Each lidar should be calibrated to verify the sampling rate  and the orientation of the laser beam. For CW lidars, accuracy of the focal range needs to be checked because it defines the range of any measurements. For pulsed lidars, the trigger time needs to be calibrated to a high accuracy because it is used for range gate determination in combination with the sampling rate. Lidar calibration is typically done by detecting the