cos  cos(  ) (13)where  is the wind direction. This method was used to observe low level jets from RHI scans in Banta et al. (2002) and wind turbine wake characteristics in Wang and Barthelmie (2015). Boccippio (1995) assumed that the wind field over a small region is linear and retrieved the flow divergence and deformation from lidar measurements. The same linear wind field assumption was used in Krishnamurthy et al. (2013) to estimate wind velocities on terrainfollowing surfaces.;For complex flows, lidars can provide qualitative observations of flow patterns using RHI and PPI scans, but it is still challenging to derive accurate wind velocities quantitatively due to the inhomogeneous and nonstationary nature of complex flows (Clifton 2015). In order to measure vertical profile of wind speed over complex terrain with vertical profilers, Bingl et al. (2009) developed a method which estimates the errors of the VAD technique at a site with complex terrain using flow modeling and derives correction factors to correct measurements from vertical profilers at the site. Weissmann et al. (2009) used the continuity equation to identify vortices from radial velocities from RHI scans with the assumption that the RHI scan is aligned with the mean wind direction (i.e., 2dimenional flow). Aitken et al. (2014) assumed that the wind turbine wake has a Gaussian deficit profile and estimated the main wake characteristics such as the wake center and wake width from PPI scans by fitting the measured radial velocities to a Gaussian function. Advance methods were studied by Chai et al. (2004) who assimilated the measured radial velocities with the 4D data assimilation method to estimate a time evolving 3dimensional flow field. Based on the existing applications of single lidars in complex flows, wind retrieval methods in complex flows rely on the assumptions of flow structures that can be simple analytical models or complicated computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models. Applying these flow models also introduces uncertainties and difficulties. DualDoppler and tripleDoppler, described below, are alternative solutions for lidar measurements in complex flows that are less dependent on assumptions regarding flow structures.;It is possible to derive turbulence statistics of atmospheric flows from lidar measurements, but lidar turbulence measurements are less established than mean wind field measurements (Mann et al. 2010 Newman et al. 2016 Sathe et al. 2015). Methods for applying lidar to derive higher moments of the flow and challenges to improved measurement accuracy can be found in (Sathe and Mann 2013 Wang et al. 2016b). Turbulence measurements from the vertical profilers are subject to two error source volumetric averaging of radial velocity measurements that reduces variance, and scanning geometry that causes cross contamination in velocity variance estimates (Sathe et al. 2011). The cross contamination can be avoided by estimating turbulence statistics directly from radial velocity variance using, for example, the sixbeam method for the Reynolds stress (Sathe et al. 2015), fixed azimuth RHI scans for the streamwise velocity variance (Banta et al. 2006), and fourorthogonal RHI scans for the momentum flux and heat flux (Gal Chen et al. 1992). However, these methods do not account for the volumetric averaging effect and hence will underestimate turbulence statistics. Thus, a turbulence model needs to be applied to compensate for the volumetric averaging effect. For example, an isotropic turbulence model was used to estimate the turbulence kinetic energy dissipation rate from lidar measurements (Banakh et al. 1999 Frehlich and Cornman 2002), while Sathe et al. (2011) used the Mann turbulence model (Mann 1994) to investigate the question can lidar measure turbulence?. Branlard et al. (2013) developed and proved a method to approximate the wind speed distribution with the mean lidar spectrum for CW lidar. With this method,