 Rebecca J Barthelmie 14on bearings arranged to cause as little mechanical loading as possible. The asymmetry of the cup arrangement ensures that the anemometer always rotates the same way irrespective of the direction of the incoming wind. While the cup anemometer is omnidirectional, the propeller anemometer needs a tail vane to align the instrument with the wind direction (e.g., Figure 33). When the approaching flow has a non zero vertical wind speed, the measured wind speed should ideally be proportional to the cosine of the inclination angle. However, depending on the anemometer design, the measured wind speed is usually higher than the cosine response curve, introducing an overestimation in the measured horizontal wind speed (Brock and Richardson 2001 Papadopoulos et al. 2001).;A cup or propeller anemometer does not turn at a low wind speed (e.g.,  0.5 m s1) because of internal mechanical friction. This property determines the lower threshold of the measurement range of a cup or propeller anemometer that is usually given in the anemometer specifications. There is a small range after the low threshold value over which the wind speed and angular velocity relationship is nonlinear therefore, measurements from this range are prone to errors (Brock and Richardson 2001). This nonlinear range is usually not reported in the specifications. However, the lower threshold value and the nonlinear range are well below 3 m s1 which is commonly the minimum wind speed for energy generation therefore, these limitations is usually not considered. The upper threshold of the measurement range is the highest wind speed that a cup or propeller anemometer can operate without damage. Note that using a measurement type with a high startup wind speed may impact the proper fitting of the Weibull distribution (Pryor et al. 2004).;Due to the inertia of the rotating shaft, a cup or propeller anemometer also does not respond to a wind speed change immediately. This effect is quantified using a distance constant () that is the distance the wind travels before the anemometer reaches 63.2 of a step change in wind speed, it is determined from wind tunnel tests and is highly instrument specific. This constant is shorter when wind speed increases than when wind speed decreases, causing an overestimation in the measured mean wind speed (Brock and Richardson 2001 Papadopoulos et al. 2001). For example, Filippelli et al. (2008) showed overestimation of 1.83.6 in energy estimate from the NRG cup anemometer under turbulent conditions, in comparison to the Ris cup anemometer, which is known to present little sensitivity to turbulence intensity, and suggested that a linear correction may be applied to account for the overestimation. This slow (dynamic) response of a cup or propeller anemometer to a wind speed change can lead to an underestimate of the peak gust (Beljaars 1987). A cup anemometer can only measure 71 of the magnitude of fluctuating eddies with a length scale of 2 and less for smaller eddies (Brock and Richardson 2001). A short distance constant (i.e., a low inertia of the anemometer) is preferred and is usually achieved by reducing the distance between the cups and the rotating shaft (Emeis 2010).;According to the IEC 61400121 the operational standard uncertainty of cup anemometer measurements can be derived from the classification and the wind speed bin (see discussion and application in (Friis Pedersen et al. 2006)). The operational standard uncertainty (ui) describes the maximum deviation of the wind speed measured by the anemometer compared with the real wind speed in m s1;3 (7)where Vi is the wind speed bin and k the classification. As an example the Ris P2546OPR cup anemometer has a k value of 1.32 in flat terrain and 3.71 in complex terrain.