Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 47equipment. Relying on technology transfer permits and limited imports will not solve this problem. Concerning the second criterion, wind resources are one of the key indicators that Morthorst (1999) emphasizes. Wind power policy in Germany successfully optimizes the use of wind resources, while Spanish prediction technologies accurately measure wind power levels and allow regulation by the penalty mechanism, which is another way to increase power stability and reliability. China has relatively abundant wind resources because of its large land mass and long coastline. According to estimates by the China meteorological administration (see Xia and Song, 2009), based on the relatively low height of 10 m above the ground, the theoreti cally exploitable offshore wind resource represents a potential power generation capacity of 4,350 GW, and the technically exploi table wind resource is 297 GW. In 2007, it has been shown that the total technically exploitable onshore wind resource was around 1,000 GW (Xia and Song, 2009). The system of four ratelevel benchmarks can be seen as a significant improvement in Chinas resource use. The four cate gories of wind tariffs generally match well with the geographic locations of wind resources. However, on a global scale, obviously Germany determines tariffs at a much finer level of detail, while Chinas four rate benchmarks are focused on the national level at the moment. Nevertheless, the trend of Chinese resource policy is in a positive direction, with further regulations to be developed in the future. According to Morthorst (1999), tariffs failed to be efficient for two reasons (1) Feedin tariffs were determined by a specific regulatory department and (2) costs for wind power were not based on direct competition with thermal power. These observa tions reveal weaknesses within regulatory systems that closely match Chinas problem that is, the development strategy in China was heavily reliant on state intervention alone, without bottomup input the central government distributed its FYP wind power objectives to the provinces without clear knowledge of the groundlevel challenges. As a result, wind power develop ment at this stage has become targetoriented, instead of shifting the load in a practical manner from traditional power generation to renewables. It is generally agreed that administrative demands should give way to market competition in the longterm development context. Wind power is not ready to replace traditional energy types at this point governmental support will still play an important role during the transition period. China is not the only;equipment. Relying on technology transfer permits and limited imports will not solve this problem. Concerning the second criterion, wind resources are one of the key indicators that Morthorst (1999) emphasizes. Wind power policy in Germany successfully optimizes the use of wind resources, while Spanish prediction technologies accurately measure wind power levels and allow regulation by the penalty mechanism, which is another way to increase power stability and reliability. China has relatively abundant wind resources because of its large land mass and long coastline. According to estimates by the China meteorological administration (see Xia and Song, 2009), based on the relatively low height of 10 m above the ground, the theoreti cally exploitable offshore wind resource represents a potential power generation capacity of 4,350 GW, and the technically exploi table wind resource is 297 GW. In 2007, it has been shown that the total technically exploitable onshore wind resource was around 1,000 GW (Xia and Song, 2009). The system of four ratelevel benchmarks can be seen as a significant improvement in Chinas resource use. The four cate gories of wind tariffs generally match well with the geographic locations of wind resources. However, on a global scale, obviously Germany determines tariffs at a much finer level of detail, while Chinas four rate benchmarks are focused on the national level at the moment. Nevertheless, the trend of Chinese resource policy is in a positive direction, with further regulations to be developed in the future. According to Morthorst (1999), tariffs failed to be efficient for two reasons (1) Feedin tariffs were determined by a specific regulatory department and (2) costs for wind power were not based on direct competition with thermal power. These observa tions reveal weaknesses within regulatory systems that closely match Chinas problem that is, the development strategy in China was heavily reliant on state intervention alone, without bottomup input the central government distributed its FYP wind power objectives to the provinces without clear knowledge of the groundlevel challenges. As a result, wind power develop ment at this stage has become targetoriented, instead of shifting the load in a practical manner from traditional power generation to renewables. It is generally agreed that administrative demands should give way to market competition in the longterm development context. Wind power is not ready to replace traditional energy types at this point governmental support will still play an important role during the transition period. China is not the onlycountry that relies heavily on state intervention. The three European countries discussed above are also highly concerned about whether market mechanisms are ready to enable the shift away from thermal power. Nowadays, state regulations play a major role in the renewableenergy policies of many countries. For instance, Germany has tariff subsidies for smallscale wind power through the Renewable Energy Law, which states that the wind tariff is 6 centskW h, while the end price is 4 centskW h. Thus, every kW h of wind power that the producer sells to the grid earns a 2cent profit (GWEC, 2009). Europe could open up its markets at the EU level before entering the global market China, in contrast, has no such smallerscale practice platform. Never theless, since wind power is gradually accounting for a greater fraction of energy production, an awareness of transitioning to market competition as a tool for longterm growth is highly encouraged. However, regulators should have a willingness to be selfcritical that is, to examine whether policy adjustments are at the right scale and in the right direction. During this process, governmentled development is unlikely to result in comprehensive policy guidance, since it only provides one perspective on the solutions other participants should be more involved to provide better evaluations. For instance, since renewable generation increased by 50 in 2010, 0.4cent (CNY)kW h wind subsidy would not be sufficient to cover the cost, (Electric Industries Statistics, 2010). With 0.4centkW h subsidies, 257.2 billion CNY would be accumulated for renewables in the period from 2009 to 2020 with 0.8 centkW h, more than 500 billion CNY would be accumulated and more than 600 billion CNY would be accumulated if the subsidies were higher than 1 cent kW h. Clearly, the requirement for raising subsidies in response to accelerated power capacity is not sustainable quantitative subsidies would not be a longterm solution for releasing financial pressures. The administrative support for European offshore wind power is comparatively more market driven, while in the case of China, government is still playing a major role in leading the wind market. Spain is understood to have the most marketdriven system compared with the other two cases. With thousands of small and mediumsize wind companies having nationwide coverage, Spain has the secondlargest wind power capacity in Europe. Wind power in China has mainly been provided by larger scale wind companies, with a limited number of mediumsize ones, creating a situation very similar to that of Germany. It therefore behoves China to consider wind resources as an impor tant arena for policy improvements.;Wind Resources Subsidies are based on detailed locational factors. Wind resource was measured by detailed technical predictions penalty mechanism is introduced to guarantee the accuracy.;NA Four benchmark categories, varying from 0.51 CNYkW h to 0.61 CNYkW h;Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 48