3812 MW, which was roughly 10 of the total EU wind power capacity. A total of 14 TWh of electricity was produced by these offshore wind farms in 2011, covering 0.4 of the EU 25s total power consumption (EWEA, 2012). The growth of offshore wind power reflects the effectiveness of policy incentives. In most countries that have both onshore and offshore wind farms, simplified administrative processes should be supplemented by microadjustments to address the details. For offshore farms, policy incentives are mostly focused on technol ogies because wind resources are sufficient. High construction cost is the major weakness of offshore wind farms. A common solution to this problem is the application of benchmarking prices to both onshore and offshore power. In Germany, the price for offshore wind power is subsidized at a rate of 91 Euros per MWh for the first 12 years and 61.9 Euros per MWh for the next 8 years. For onshore wind power, the rate is 83.6 Euros per MWh for the first 5 years and 52.8 Euros per MWh for the next 15 years (EWEA, 2012). Data show that Germany had an increase of 108 MW in offshore wind capacity out of a total of 1,493 MW of wind power in 2010 (GWEC, 2011). The federal government paid more attention to offshore wind power after the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan. Governmental planning calls for 7.6 GW of installed offshore capacity by 2020 and as much as 26 GW by 2030. Denmark expanded its wind capacity growth from onshore to offshore farms in the early 2000s, at a time when wind capacity was growing rapidly. Offshore wind power is comparatively expensive and poses risks for construction and operations because of wave levels and water depth. Learning from the recent history of governmental support for onshore wind power, bidders and regulators accepted the idea of fixed feedin tariffs over a lifetime of 50,000 fullload hours for offshore turbines. Conditions at Danish offshore platforms vary, so a tender system is applied to establish offshore tariffs, while the onshore tariff is 68 Euros per MWh for the first 15 years. In 20202025, the average offshore capacity factor will be 40 of total Danish wind power (EWEA, 2012). Administrative systems for wind bidders are also being simplified. Successful bidders could receive licenses directly from govern mental regulators.;2.2.2. Offshore wind power development in China China has two operating offshore wind farms as of 2012 the Donghai Bridge wind farm near Shanghai has a 102 MW capacity, and the Jiangsu Rudong county wind showcase has a 201 MW capacity. The NDRC initiated offshore wind development planning in 2005, which is relatively late compared to Europe. However, offshore wind power in China is experiencing very rapid devel opment owing to strong governmental support. In 2009, the national energy administration (NEA) required each eastcoast province to estimate its potential for developing offshore wind power. In 2010, the NEA released interim regulations and require ments for offshore wind development, including the bidding procedures for offshore feedin tariffs. In the same year, the first round of concession bidding started in 11 coastal provinces. In 2011, China already had 209 MW of offshore wind power capa city. Furthermore, 24 offshore wind farms have been approved for construction in the 12th fiveyear plan (FYP). By 2015, China will have 5 GW of offshore wind capacity by 2020, offshore wind capacity should reach 30 GW (He et al., 2011). The lack of coherent regulation between different governmen tal sectors is a major reason for delaying approved offshore wind projects. According to He et al. (2011), four of the tariff bid winners in October 2010 voluntarily waived their projects. For instance, the sea area for Dongtais offshore wind farm was claimed to be an ocean reserve after the NDRC gave approval;2.2.2. Offshore wind power development in China China has two operating offshore wind farms as of 2012 the Donghai Bridge wind farm near Shanghai has a 102 MW capacity, and the Jiangsu Rudong county wind showcase has a 201 MW capacity. The NDRC initiated offshore wind development planning in 2005, which is relatively late compared to Europe. However, offshore wind power in China is experiencing very rapid devel opment owing to strong governmental support. In 2009, the national energy administration (NEA) required each eastcoast province to estimate its potential for developing offshore wind power. In 2010, the NEA released interim regulations and require ments for offshore wind development, including the bidding procedures for offshore feedin tariffs. In the same year, the first round of concession bidding started in 11 coastal provinces. In 2011, China already had 209 MW of offshore wind power capa city. Furthermore, 24 offshore wind farms have been approved for construction in the 12th fiveyear plan (FYP). By 2015, China will have 5 GW of offshore wind capacity by 2020, offshore wind capacity should reach 30 GW (He et al., 2011). The lack of coherent regulation between different governmen tal sectors is a major reason for delaying approved offshore wind projects. According to He et al. (2011), four of the tariff bid winners in October 2010 voluntarily waived their projects. For instance, the sea area for Dongtais offshore wind farm was claimed to be an ocean reserve after the NDRC gave approvalfor construction of 200 MW of capacity. Similar cases demonstrat ing the lack of integrated planning could have a huge negative influence on further offshore wind power development.;Feedin tariffs are currently the prevailing instrument world wide for encouraging wind power development, followed by rebates, tax incentives, tendering systems, and green tariffs (Haas et al., 2004 p. 3). Morthorst (1999) identified five key areas as the most important indicators for evaluating the process of wind power development these are investment certainty, effectiveness, efficiency, market competition, and administrative demands.; Investment certainty refers to the high level of certainty for independent investors (wind power producers) who are guar anteed a fixed price for each kW h of power that is connected into the grid. In the cases of Germany, Spain and Denmark, investment certainty only applied to a short period rather than longterm because the feedin tariff was continuously chan ged. It has been proven to be very difficult for any country to identify the right policy in the early stages.  Effectiveness is the degree to which tariff policy helps promote renewable electricity. It is important to determine the optimal level of subsidies for the most suitable investment in wind power. An overly high subsidy could be a potential threat to funding sources. The effectiveness level is very sensitive to the tariff set, production costs, administrative procedures and nat ural conditions (Morthorst, 1999). The experiences of Germany and Spain show that tariff policies can evolve from lesseffective scenarios to moreeffective ones after policy reform. Since wind power has great future potential, it is still too early to claim that current German and Spanish tariff policies are the most mature and effective ones. Denmarks situation, on the other hand, shows the sensitivity of wind power to policy support capacity was growing rapidly when subsidies were strong, but failed quickly once the beneficial policies were discontinued.  Whereas effectiveness applies at the macro level, efficiency applies at the micro level. The experiences of Europe indicate that efficiency refers to whether a policy contributes to capacity growth or technology development, or helps to keep tariff rates at reasonable levels. Morthorst (1999) argues that policy usually fails to be efficient because of two factors feedin tariffs are determined by a single regulatory governmental department, andor there is no direct competition under feedin tariffs.  Market competition encourages wind power producers to evolve to adopt a market mechanism. As previously discussed, the most marketdriven country is Spain. In comparison with countries where oligopolies dominate the market, thousands of small and mediumscale wind companies in Spain clearly contribute to the transparency and fairness of market competition. However, at this very early stage of development, a wind power tariff does not have the ability to make the price directly competitive with thermal power. In other words, rushing into the competitive market before maturity could reduce efficiency. Market com petition has not been achieved in any countries yet, although there are significant trends in that direction.  Feedin tariffs should have clear and transparent administrative demands that specify the extent to which the government should be involved in regulation or deregulation of tariff man agement. The Chinese characteristics of topdown control are suitable for stateowned enterprises on the other hand, most European countries, such as Germany and Spain, are working on deregulation processes in an attempt to make the transition to a market mechanism. Meanwhile, Denmark represents the case of;Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 46