Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 46having a simplified administrative system enabling bidders to receive licenses for offshore wind power.;Investment is a major pushing force for accelerating wind power development, which should be implemented with effective and efficient policy guidance. Effectiveness views the situation from the macro level meanwhile, efficiency tackles the pro blems from the ground level. The role of government is to find a balance between interventional controls and deregulation based on market mechanisms. At this stage, wind power requires policy supports, but it should be evolving in the direction of market mechanisms for longterm sustainable development. The above conceptual framework was designed for renewable energy as a whole. In order to evaluate wind power for the particular case of China, we have to narrow down Morthorsts conceptual framework to a more focused analytical model, which can be summarized by four indicators Technology, wind resources, administration, and timespace frame. Market com petition is not used due to the lack of market mechanisms in China.; Haas et al. (2004) indicated that different countries may require varying types of policy support, but a common strategy in wind power development is to enhance the technology factor. According to Morthorst (1999), technology stimulation is con sidered as increasing the efficiency of wind power. Higher efficiency would enable a system to provide more electricity with a limited amount of available capacity. The German EEG was a successful policy reform that actively applied technology incentives. Spanish policy reform was another case of shifting investment towards technology for wind power development. Both countries accomplished significant progress in developing wind technologies.  Morthorst (1999) pays considerable attention to wind resources. Wind resources should be the core consideration for policy making. This indicator contains two parts first, the level of resource availability on a certain geographic scale and second, access to maximum wind resources should also be considered in this criterion. For countries with imbalanced wind resources, policy guidance needs to play a more important role in compar ison with those countries that have sufficient wind resources. For example, Germany introduces policy restrictions on certain locations to avoid overinstallation, while Spain is more flexible and maximizes potential wind resources through wind power forecasting and penalty mechanisms.  The third indicator that determines policy effectiveness is administration. It is important to consider whether the pur pose of policymaking is being fulfilled the degree to which the implemented policy addresses each component of the most challenging issues and whether the government plans to transfer the development method from topdown state inter vention to deregulated competitive market mechanisms.  Lastly, the timespace frame is another essential factor that should be considered during the process of evaluating the policy. The suitability of tariff policy should be tested over a certain amount of time. Longterm examination could reveal weaknesses and allow the introduction of appropriate strate gic solutions in a local context. During the evaluation process, one should bear in mind whether the policy adjustment has been in effect long enough to judge the results domestically.;It is generally recognised that China and the three European countries discussed above have actively improved their windpower policies via policy reforms. Like Germany, China has a strong focus on wind resource optimization. China also learned from Spain by incorporating price floor (benchmark) economic theory into its policies on the other hand, China is heavily relying on strong financial subsidies, which recall the failure of Danish wind power development after the 2000 policy reform. The commonality between China and Denmark reveals a financial threat to the future development of Chinas wind power sector. Because of the large amount of topdown investment, extravagant subsidies may exist. The risk to Chinas wind power sustainability has been a concern of researchers both at home and abroad. At the moment, Chinas wind power capacity represents a small percentage of its overall energy capacity (3.27, as shown in Fig. 8) however, in the long term, the promise of generous and constant prices could be a threat to the governments ability to subsidize a large amount of wind power capacity.;Table 2 is a policy comparison between Germany, Spain, Denmark and China. Our objective is to find models for Chinas policy improvements via an analytical framework. First of all, the technology barrier is a major challenge for Chinas wind power improvement efforts. Despite the great amount of installed capa city, a large proportion of wind power capacity has yet to be connected to the grid because of grid access bottlenecks. The percentage of Chinas gridconnected capacity is extremely low in comparison with European levels. Nongrid capacities in Europe are usually around 10, but China has more than 30 in nongrid capacity. For instance, an average of only 22.9 GW of Chinese wind power was gridconnected in 2010, although China had a total capacity of 41.8 GW (Electric Industries Statistics, 2010). The purpose of financial support is to foster the overall effectiveness of wind power consumption however, the high volume of sub sidies has only helped China to increase mass production, with little technology improvement. Without policy incentives, there is little investment flowing to technology innovations. A typical technical barrier for wind power is power storage technology. Most of the wind resources are present at night, while the peak demands usually occur between 10 am and 3 pm (GWEC, 2009). Furthermore, offshore wind turbines face a global technical barrier. According to He et al. (2011), offshore wind turbines require high reliability to handle waves higher than 10 m, which is the limit for sending human workers and workboats to repair damage. This issue is of more concern for China than for European countries because the Chinese shore is widely open to the ocean, with wave and wind levels generally higher than those in the waters bordering most of Europe. On the other hand, this technical barrier reveals that China needs more independent knowledge and property rights with respect to wind power;Fig. 8. Chinas 2010 power capacity distribution by energy type. Source Energy technology and economics (2011).;Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 47