The marketled development of wind power should not devolve into a price war instead, distinctive technologies and patents should be the major pricedetermining factors. The tariffs for Chinas four new offshore wind projects will be 0.78, 0.71, 0.69, and 0.68 CNYkW h, respectively. These are very close to onshore wind tariffs, although the cost of offshore wind projects is usually twice that of onshore projects (He et al., 2011). In the case of Europe, developers inclusively involved with turbine manufac tures, and companies with elite technologies are enabled to have higher market penetration. According to the EWEA (2012), five companiesSSE renewable (28), RWE (22), DONG (19), Vat tenfall (13), and ENBW (6)shared 88 of European offshore capacity in 2011 because of accumulative technologies. The price war circumstance reveals the weakness that offshore wind power in China features very limited engagement of Chinese intellectual property rather, the operation is highly reliant on governmental subsidies. The current tariff for the Donghai bridge offshore wind project is 0.978 CNYkW h, but that project would require 1.2 CNY kW h to achieve fiscal balance (He et al., 2011). The timespace frame underscores another weakness of Chinas wind development policy. Most of the European countries spent 10 years or more on testing technologies and finding suitable policies for their domestic markets. As discussed in the previous sections, both Germany and Spain initiated wind power in the 1990s, but mass capacity growth did not occur until the 2000s. In comparison, China only had 67 years of experience for onshore and 12 years for offshore wind development, which should have been part of the testing period for policy development and improvement. It is predictable that China has a long way to go, unavoidably making more policy changes in the future. Onshore wind power development in China from 2002 to 2009 was at a level similar to Europes in the 1990s, whereas Chinas offshore wind power development is still at an immature stage. Aiming at high capacity growth this early in the life cycle of Chinas wind power development would not be beneficial for wind power in the long run. Impractical policies may be inadvertently imple mented, since the development of Chinas wind power is still at an early stage. China is geographically larger than European countries, and it contains more robust wind resources. Theoreti cally, China should be expected to spend more time exploring and examining its options to determine what policies would be most suitable. After Chinas onshore feedin tariff policy was developed, it was adjusted for application to offshore wind power. However, it is premature to apply the feedin tariff to offshore wind power at the moment, since there is considerable room for improvement. Predictably, when offshore power capacity is growing rapidly, its gridconnection capability is a more severe challenge. To summarize the above analysis, in comparison with Europe, China does not have detailed and marketdriven policies it also lacks policy guidance to encourage technology enhancement. In fact, it appears that China is emulating the Danish experience. China is geographically bigger, and provides larger subsidies, than European countries the recent policy reforms increased invest ment levels to meet the capacity requirements, instead of encoura ging technology improvements. As a result, crosssubsidies rose twice in the three years from 2009 to 2011. Predictably, they will be forced to rise again in the near future, since capacity is growing at such a fast pace, and the cost of thermal power will be raised accordingly again.;The previous sections identified some problems that Chinas wind sector is experiencing, including the lack of technologystimulation policies, unnecessary funding support through cross subsidies, and the need for improvement in administrative schemes. Four general recommendations are provided below.; First, as wind power capacity has grown, it has been increas ingly recognized that a major obstacle to renewable energy development is the powersubsidy financing method. Chinas wind sector is currently growing very rapidly because of strong financial subsidies. A financial burden will arise in the long run if technical efficiency does not improve. In the future, the mass production of wind power capacity will require larger subsidies than thermal power. Therefore, subsidies will have to be further increased. Challenges will still remain for longterm development because, at the same time, in order to afford the increasing subsidies, the government would have to charge higher rates to endusers for thermal power. This situation would create a vicious cycle for power subsidies. The Danish case shows that this scenario could not last for long. It is therefore a strategic imperative to shift the policy from a capacityoriented stimulation mechanism to a technology oriented one. For instance, subsidies should be based on inte grated gridconnected capacity instead of installed capacity.  Second, quantitative data do not necessarily represent the full picture of empirical practice. It is true that China currently has the largest wind power capacity in the world, surpassing that of the U.S., and it is still the fastestgrowing country in this respect. However, quantitative performance data do not reveal the weakness of low gridconnected capacity. As discussed in the above sections, nongridconnected wind power in most European countries represents around 10 of total capacity in China, total installed capacity in 2010 was 41.8 GW, while total gridconnected capacity that year was 22.9 GW i.e., more than 30 of capacity was not connected to transmission lines. It is therefore necessary for multiple stakeholders to be involved in the decisionmaking process to help avoid or reduce such problems. Technical improvements and policies with more detailed resource distributions would help China to be more efficient in wind power delivery.  Third, topdown intervention should be integrated with grass roots support. The combined efforts of both topdown and grassroots stakeholders could lead to more suitable regula tions. Successful efforts are characterized by the cooperation of all stakeholders to achieve a common objective groundlevel problems are easily revealed via bottomup input. The decisionmaking process is heavily controlled by the autho rities in China, with a lack of feedback from the ground. Policy design should be a shared effort among all relevant social sectors. Simply relying on one sector makes it very hard to achieve comprehensive and suitable results. It would be very helpful if tariff policies could be determined jointly by all governmental sectors and other participants.  Lastly, offshore wind power in China is still at an immature stage of its life cycle. At this stage, policy makers should focus on institutional improvements and RD investments instead of rushing into high capacity growth. The initial macro guidance established the nature of offshore wind power as a showcase, owing to the immaturity of both policy schemes and independent technical properties. Moreover, the provi sions of the 12th FYP accelerated the speed of capacity growth, although offshore wind power is still in a testing period. A lack of solid and suitably directed policy development in the early stages will result in inefficient investments and other threats to future power generation. The regulatory sector should aim for sustainable policies. Early investment in capacity growth while the system is immature is a highrisk and lowreturn approach.;Z. Hu et al.  Energy Policy 53 (2013) 4150 49