R. Costanza eta. Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315 9;Fig. 2. Global map of the value of ecosystems services. See Supplementary Information and Table 2 for details.;Fig. 2. Global map of the value of ecosystems services. See Supplementary Information and Table 2 for details.human welfare by ecosystem services are of a purely public goods nature. They accrue directly to humans without passing through the money economy at all. In many cases people are not even aware of them. Examples include clean air and water, soil formation, climate regulation, waste treatment, aesthetic values and good health, as mentioned above.;In order to estimate the total value of ecosystem services, we needed estimates of the total global extent of the ecosystems themselves. We devised an aggregated classification scheme in 16 primary categories as shown in Table 2 to repre sent current global land use. The major division is between marine and terrestrial systems. Marine was further subdivided into open ocean and;tem services, we needed estimates of the total global extent of the ecosystems themselves. We devised an aggregated classification scheme in 16 primary categories as shown in Table 2 to repre sent current global land use. The major division is between marine and terrestrial systems. Marine was further subdivided into open ocean andcoastal, which itself includes estuaries, seagrassjal gae beds, coral reefs and shelf systems. Terrestrial systems were broken down into two types of forest (tropical and temperateboreal), grasslands rangelands, wetlands, lakesrivers, desert, tundra, icerock, cropland and urban. Primary data were from Matthews (1983) as summarized in de Groot (1992) with additional information from a num ber of sources (Ryther, 1969 Deevey, 1970 Whit taker and Likens, 1975 Ehrlich et al., 1977 United Nations Environmental Programme First Assessment Report, 1990). We also used data from Bailey (1996), as a crosscheck on the terres trial estimates and Houde and Rutherford (1993), Pauly and Christensen (1995) as a check on the marine estimates. The 32 landcover types of Matthews (1983) were recategorized for Table 2 and Fig. 2. The major assumptions were (1) chaparral and steppe were considered rangeland and combined with grasslands and (2) a variety