6 R. Costanza eta!. Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315;6 R. Costanza eta!. Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315configuration of materials, to enhance the welfare of humans. The human use of this flow of services may or may not leave the original capital stock intact. Capital stock takes different identifiable forms, most notably in physical forms including natural capital, such as tree, minerals, ecosystem, the atmosphere and so on manufactured capital, such as machines and buildings and the human capital of physical bodies. In addition, capital stocks can take intangible forms, especially as information such as that stored in computers and in individual human brains, as well as that stored in species and ecosystems.;Ecosystem services consist of flows of materials,energy and information from natural capital stocks which combine with manufactured and hu man capital services to produce human welfare. Although it is possible to imagine generating hu man welfare without natural capital and ecosys tem services in artificial space colonies, this possibility is too remote and unlikely to be of much current interest. In fact, one additional way to think about the value of ecosystem services is to determine what it would cost to replicate them in a technologically produced, artificial biosphere. Experience with manned space missions and with Biosphere II in Arizona indicates that this is an exceedingly complex and expensive proposition. Biosphere I (the Earth) is a very efficient, least cost provider of human lifesupport services.;Thus we can consider the general class of natural capital as essential to human welfare. Zero natural capital implies zero human welfare be cause it is not feasible to substitute, in total, purely nonnatural capital for natural capital. Manufactured and human capital require natural capital for their construction (Costanza and Daly, 1992). Therefore, it is not very meaningful to ask the total value of natural capital to human wel fare, nor to ask the value of massive, particular forms of natural capital. It is trivial to ask what is the value of the atmosphere to humankind, or what is the value of rocks and soil infrastruc ture as support systems. Their value is infinite in total.;in the quantity or quality of various types of natural capital and ecosystem services may havean impact on human welfare. Such changes in clude both small changes at large scales and large changes at small scales. For example, changing the gaseous composition of the global atmosphere by a small amount may have largescale climate change effects that will affect the viability and welfare of global human populations. Large changes at small scales include, for example, dra matically changing local forest composition. These changes may dramatically alter terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, having an impact on the benefits and costs of local human activities. In general, changes in particular forms of natural capital and ecosystem services will alter the costs or benefits of maintaining human welfare.;The issue of valuation is inseparable from thechoices and decisions we have to make about ecological systems (Turner and Pearce, 1993 Bingham, 1995). Some argue that valuation of ecosystems is either impossible or unwise, that we cannot place a value on such intangibles as human life, environmental aesthetics, or long term ecological benefits. But, in fact, we do so every day. When we set cop.struction standards for highways, bridges and the like, we value hu man life (acknowledged or not) because spending more money on construction would save lives. Another frequent argument is that we should protect ecosystems for purely moral. or aesthetic reasons, and we do not need valuations of ecosys tems for this purpose. But there are equally com pelling moral arguments that may be in direct conflict with the moral argument to protect ecosystems for example, the moral argument that no one should go hungry. Moral arguments trans late the valuation and decision problem into a different set of dimensions and a different lan guage of discourse (Turner and Pearce, 1993) one that, in our view, makes the problem of valuation and choice more difficult and less explicit. But moral and economic arguments are certainly not mutually exclusive. Both discussions can and should go on in parallel.