12 R. Costanza et al.j Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315;5. The valuation approach taken here assumesthat there are no sharp thresholds, disconti nuities or irreversibilities in the ecosystem response functions. This is almost certainly not the case. Therefore this valuation yields an underestimate of the total value.;6. Extrapolation from point estimates to globaltotals introduces error. In general, we esti mated unit area values for the ecosystem services (in ha I year 1) and then multi plied by the total area of each biome. This can only be considered a crude first approxi mation and can introduce errors depending on the type of ecosystem service and its spa tial heterogeneity.;8. Values for individual ecosystem functionsshould be based on sustainable use levels, taking account of both the carrying capacity for individual functions (such as foodpro duction or waste recycling) and the combined effect of simultaneous use of more functions. Ecosystems should be able to provide all the functions listed in Table 1 simultaneously and indefinitely. This is certainly not the case for some current ecosystem services because of overuse at existing prices.;9. We have not incorporated the infrastructurevalue of ecosystems, as noted above, leading to an underestimation of the total value.;10. Intercountry comparisons of valuation areaffected by income differences. We attempted to address this in some cases using the rela tive purchasing power GNP per capita of the country relative to the USA, but this is a very crude way to make the correction.;11. In general, we have used annual flow valuesand have avoided many of the difficult issues involved with discounting future flow values to arrive at a net present value of the capital stock. But a few estimates in the literature were stated as stock values, and it was neces sary to assume a discount rate (we used 50) in order to convert them into annual flows.;12. Our estimate is based on a static snapshotof what is, in fact, a complex dynamic sys tem. We have assumed a static and partial equilibrium model in the sense that the value of each service is derived independently and added. This ignores the complex interdepen dencies between the services. The estimate could also change drastically as the system moved through critical nonlinearities or thresholds. Although it is possible to build general equilibrium models in which the value of all ecosystem services are derived simultaneously with all other values, and to build dynamic models that can incorporate nonlinearities and thresholds, these models have rarely been attempted at the scale we are discussing. They represent the next logical step in deriving better estimates of the value of ecosystem services.;We have tried to expose these various sourcesof uncertainty whenever possible in Supplemen tary Information and its supporting notes, and state the range of relevant values. In spite of the limitations noted above, we believe it is very useful to synthesize existing valuation estimates, if only to determine a crude, initial magnitude. In general, because of the nature of the limitations noted, we expect our current estimate to represent a minimum value for ecosystem services.;Table 2 is a summary of the results of oursynthesis. It lists each of the major biomes along with their current estimated global surface area, the average (on a per hectare basis) of the esti mated values of the 17 ecosystem services we have identified from Supplementary Information, and the total value of ecosystem services by biome, by service type and for the entire biosphere.;We estimated that at the current margin,ecosystems provide at least US33 trillion dollars worth of services annually. The majority of the value of service we could identify is currently outside the market system, in services such as gas regulation (US1.3 trillion year 1), disturbance regulation (US1.8 trillion year 1), waste treat