14 R. Costanza et al.j Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315;14 R. Costanza et al.j Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315ecological economic system aimed at a better un derstanding of both the complex dynamics of physicalbiological processes and the value of these processes to human wellbeing (Costanza et al., 1993 Bockstael, 1995). But we do not have to wait for the results of these models to draw the following conclusions.;What this study makes abundantly clear is thatecosystem services provide an important portion of the total contribution to human welfare on this planet. We must begin to give the natural capital stock that produces these services and adequate weight in the decisionmaking process, otherwise current and continued future human welfare may drastically suffer. We estimate in this study that the annual value of these services is US1654 trillion, with an estimated average of US33 tril lion. The real value is almost certainly much larger, even at the current margin. US33 trillion is 1.8 times the current global GNP. One way to look at this comparison is that if one were to try to replace the services by ecosystems at the cur rent margin, one would need to increase global GNP by at least US33 trillion, partly to cover services already captured in existing GNP and partly to cover services that are not currently captured in GNP. This impossible task would lead to no increase in welfare because we would only be replacing existing services, and it ignores the fact that many ecosystem services are literally irreplaceable.;If ecosystem services were actually paid for, interms of their value contribution to the global economy, the global price system would be very different from what it is today. The price of commodities using ecosystem services directly or indirectly would be much greater. The structure of factor payments, including wages, interest rates and profits would change dramatically. World GNP would be very different in both magnitude and composition if it adequately incorporated the value of ecosystem services. One particular use of the estimates we have developed is to help modify systems of national accounting to better reflect the;terms of their value contribution to the global economy, the global price system would be very different from what it is today. The price of commodities using ecosystem services directly or indirectly would be much greater. The structure of factor payments, including wages, interest rates and profits would change dramatically. World GNP would be very different in both magnitude and composition if it adequately incorporated the value of ecosystem services. One particular use of the estimates we have developed is to help modify systems of national accounting to better reflect thevalue of ecosystem services and natural capital. Initial attempts to do this paint a very different picture of our current level of economic welfare than conventional GNP, some indicating a level ling of welfare since about 1970 while GNP has continued to increase (Daly and Cobb, 1989 Cobb and Cobb, 1994 MaxNeef, 1995). A sec ond important use of these estimates is for project appraisal, where ecosystem services lost must be weighed against the benefits of a specific project (Bingham, 1995). Because ecosystem services are largely outside the market and uncertain, they are too often ignored or undervalued, leading to the error of constructing projects whose social costs far outweigh their benefits.;As natural capital and ecosystem services become more stressed and more scarce in the fu ture, we can only expect their value to increase. If significant, irreversible thresholds are passed for irreplaceable ecosystem services, their value may quickly jump to infinity. Given the huge uncer tainties involved, we may never have a very pre cise estimate of the value of ecosystem services. Nevertheless, even the crude initial estimate we have been able to assemble is a useful starting point (we stress again that it is only a starting point). It demonstrates the need for much addi tional research and it also indicates the specific areas that are most in need of additional study. It also highlights the relative importance of ecosys tem services and the potential impact on our welfare of continuing to squander them.;S. Carpenter was instrumental in encouragingthe project. M. Grasso did initial identification and collection of literature sources. We thank S. Carpenter, G. Daily, H. Daly, A.M. Freeman, N. Myers, C. Perrings, D. Pimentel, S. Pimm and S. Postel for helpful comments on earlier drafts. This project was sponsored by the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS), an NSFfunded Center at the University of Califor nia at Santa Barbara. The authors met during the week of June 1721, 1996 to do the major parts of the synthesis activities. The idea for the study