R. Costanza et a. Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 3..15 7;So, although ecosystem valuation is certainlydifficult and friught with uncertainties, one choice we do not have is whether or not to do it. Rather, the decisions we make as a society about ecosys tems imply valuations (although not necessarily expressed in monetary terms). We can choose to make these valuations explicit or not we can do them with an explicit acknowledgement of the huge uncertainties involved or not but as long as we are forced to make choices, we are going through the process of valuation.;The exercise of valuing the services of naturalcapital at the margin consists of determining the differences that relatively small changes in these services make to human welfare. Changes in qual ity or quantity of ecosystem services have value insofar as they either change the benefits associ ated with human activities or change the costs of those activities. These changes in benefits and costs either have an impact on human welfare through established markets or through nonmar ket activities. For example, coral reefs provide habitats for fish. One aspect of their value is to increase and concentrate fish stocks. One effect of changes in coral reef quality or quantity would be discernible in commercial fisheries markets, or in recreational fisheries. But other aspects of the value of coral reefs, such as recreational diving and biodiversity conservation, do not show up completely in markets. Forests provide timber materials through well established markets, but the associated habitat values of forests are also felt through unmarketed recreational activities. The chains of effects from ecosystem services to human welfare can range from extremely simple to exceedingly complex. Forests provide timber, but also hold soils and moisture, and create mi croclimates, all of which contribute to human welfare in complex, and generally nonmarketed ways.;Sherman, 1990 Barde and Pearce, 1991 Aylward and Barbier, 1992 Pearce, 1993 Costanza and Folke, 1997 Goulder and Kennedy, 1997). In this analysis, we synthesized previous studies based on a wide variety of methods, noting the limitations and assumptions underlying each.;Many of the valuation techniques used in thestudies covered in our synthesis are based, either directly or indirectly, on attempts to estimate the willingnesstopay of individuals for ecosystem services. For example, if ecological services pro vided a 50 increment to the timber productivity of a forest, then the beneficiaries of this service should be willing to pay up to 50 for it. In addition to timber production, if the forest of fered nonmarketed, aesthetic, existence and con servation values of 70, those receiving this nonmarket benefit should be willing to pay up to 70 for it. The total value of ecological services would be 120, but the contribution to the money economy of ecological services would be 50, the amounCthat actually passes through markets. In this study we have tried to estimate the total value of ecological services, regardless of whether they are currently marketed.;Fig. I shows some of these concepts diagrammatically. Fig. la shows conventional supply (marginal cost) and demand (marginal benefit) curves for a typical marketed good or service. The value that would show up in gross national product (GNP) is the market price p times the quantity q, or the area pbqc. There are three other relevant areas represented on the diagram, how ever. The cost of production is the area under the supply curve, cbq. The producer surplus or net rent for a resource is the area between the market price and the supply curve, pbc. The consumer surplus or the amount of welfare the consumer receives over and above the price paid in the market is the area between the demand curve and the market price, abp. The total economic value of the resource is the sum of the producer and consumer surplus (excluding the cost of produc tion), or the area abc on the diagram. Note that total economic value can be greater or less than the price times quantity estimates used in GNP.;Fig. 1a refers to a humanmade, substitutablegood. Many ecosystem services are only substi