R. Costanza et al.Ecoogical Economics 25 (1998) 315 13;R. Costanza et al.Ecoogical Economics 25 (1998) 315 13ment (US2.3 trillion year 1) and nutrient cycling (US17 trillion year 1). About 63 of the esti mated value is contributed by marine systems (US20.9 trillion year 1) Most of this comes from coastal systems (US10.6 trillion year 1). About 38 of the estimated value comes from terrestrial systems, mainly from forests (US4. 7 trillion year 1) and wetlands (US4.9 trillion year 1).;We estimated a range of values whenever possible for each entry in Supplementary Information. Table 2 reports only the average values. Had we used the low end of the range in Supplementary Information, the global total would have been around US19 trillion. If we eliminate nutrient cycling, which is the largest single service, esti mated at US17 trillion, the total annual value would be around US16 trillion. Had we used the high end for all estimates, along with estimating the value of desert, tundra and icerock as the average value of rangelands, the estimate would be around US54 trillion. So the total range of annual values we estimated were from US1654 trillion. This is not a huge range, but other sources of uncertainty listed above are much more critical. It is important to emphasize, however, that despite the many uncertainties included in this estimate, it is almost certainly an underesti mate for several reasons, as listed above.;There have been very few previous attempts toestimate the total global value of ecosystem ser vices with which to compare these results. We identified two, based on completely different methods and assumptions, both from each other and from the methods used in this study. They thus provide an interesting check.;One was an early attempt at a static generalequilibrium inputoutput model of the globe, in cluding both ecological and economic processes and commodities (Costanza and Neil, 1981 Costanza and Hannon, 1989). This model divided the globe into nine commodities or product groups and nine processes, two of which were economic (urban and agriculture) and seven of which were ecological, including both terrestrial and marine systems. Data were from about 1970. Although this was a very aggregated breakdown and the data was of only moderate quality, the;equilibrium inputoutput model of the globe, in cluding both ecological and economic processes and commodities (Costanza and Neil, 1981 Costanza and Hannon, 1989). This model divided the globe into nine commodities or product groups and nine processes, two of which were economic (urban and agriculture) and seven of which were ecological, including both terrestrial and marine systems. Data were from about 1970. Although this was a very aggregated breakdown and the data was of only moderate quality, themodel produced a set of shadow prices and shadow values for all the flows between pro cesses, as well as the net outputs from the system, which could be used to derive an estimate of the total value of ecosystem services. The inputout put format is far superior to the partial equi librium format we used in this study for differentiating gross from net flows and avoiding double counting. The results yielded a total value of the net output of the seven global ecosystem processes equal to the equivalent of US9.4 tril lion in 1972. Converted to 1994 US this is about 34 trillion, surprisingly close to our current aver age estimate. This estimate broke down into US11.9 trillion (or 35) from terrestrial ecosys tem processes and US22.1 trillion (or 65) from marine processes, also very close to our current estimate. World GNP in 1970 was about 14.3 trillion (in 1994 US), indicating a ratio of total ecosystem services to GNP of about 2.41. The current estimate has a corresponding ratio of 1.81.;A more recent study (Alexander et al., 1998)estimated a maximum sustainable surplus value of ecosystem services by considering ecosystem services as one input to an aggregate global pro duction function along with labour and manufac tured capital. Their estimates ranged from US3.4 to US17 .6 trillion year I, depending on various assumptions. This approach assumed that the to tal value of ecosystem services is limited to that which has an impact on marketed value, either directly or indirectly, and thus cannot exceed the total world GNP of about US18 trillion. But, as we have pointed out, only a fraction of ecosystem services affects private goods traded in existing markets, which would be included in measures such as GNP. This is a subset of the services we estimated, so we would expect this estimate to undervalue total ecosystem services.;The results of both of these studies indicate,however, that our current estimate is at least in approximately the same range. As we have noted, there are many limitations to both the current and these two previous studies. They are all only static snapshots of a biosphere that is a complex, dy namic system. The obvious next steps include building regional and global models of the linked