4 R. Costana et a!. J Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315;Because ecosystem services are not fully captured in commercial markets or adequately quantified in terms comparable with economic services and manufactured capital, they are often given too little weight in policy decisions. This neglect may ultimately compromise the sustain ability of humans in the biosphere. The economies of the Earth would grind to a halt without the services of ecological lifesupport systems, so in one sense their total value to the economy is infinite. However, it can be instructive to estimate the incremental or marginal value of ecosystem services (the estimated rate of change of value compared with changes in ecosystem services from their current levels). There have been many studies in the past few decades aimed at estimat ing the value of a wide variety of ecosystem services. We have gathered together this large (but scattered) amount of information and present it here in a form useful for ecologists, economists, policy makers and the general public. From this synthesis, we have estimated values for ecosystem services per unit area by biome, and then multi plied by the total area of each biome and summed over all services and biomes.;Although we acknowledge that there are manyconceptual and empirical problems inherent in producing such an estimate, we think this exercise is essential in order to (1) make the range of potential values of the services of ecosystems more apparent (2) establish at least a first ap proximation of the relative magnitude of global ecosystem services (3) set up a framework for their further analysis (4) point out those areas most in need of additional research and (5) stim ulate additional research and debate. Most of the problems and uncertainties we encountered indi cate that our estimate represents a minimum value, which would probably increase (I) with additional effort in studying and valuing a broader range of ecosystem services (2) with the incorporation of more realistic representations of ecosystem dynamics and interdependence and (3) as ecosystem services become more stressed and scarce in the future.;Ecosystem functions refer variously to the habitat, biological or system properties or processes of ecosystems. Ecosystem goods (such as food) and services (such as waste assimilation) represent the benefits human populations derive, directly or indirectly, from ecosystem functions. For simplic ity, we will refer to ecosystem goods and services together as ecosystem services. A large number of functions and services can be identified (de Groot, 1987, 1992 Turner, 1988, 1991). Daily (1997) provides a recent, detailed compendium on de scribing, measuring and valuing ecosystem ser vices. For the purpose of this analysis we grouped ecosystem services into 17 major categories. These groups are listed in Table 1. We included only renewable ecosystem services, excluding nonre newable fuels and minerals and the atmosphere. Note the ecosystem services and functions do not necessarily show a onetoone correspondence. In some cases a single ecosystem service is the product of two or more ecosystem functions whereas in other cases a single ecosystem function contributes to two or more ecosystem services. It is also important to emphasize the interdependent nature of many ecosystem functions. For exam ple, some of the net primary production in an ecosystem ends up as food, the consumption of which generates respiratory products necessary for primary production. Even though these func tions and services are interdependent, in many cases they can be added because they represent joint products of the ecosystem, which support human welfare. To the extent possible, we have attempted to distinguish joint and addable prod ucts from products that would represent double counting (because they represent different aspects of the same service) if they were added. It is also important to recognize that a minimum level of ecosystem infrastructure is necessary in order to allow production of the range of services shown in Table I. Several authors have stressed the impor tance of this infrastructure of the ecosystem itself as a contributor to its total value (Costanza and Daly, 1992 Turner and Pearce, 1993). This com ponent of the value is not included in the current analysis.