8 R. Costanza et al. I Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315;8 R. Costanza et al. I Ecological Economics 25 (1998) 315tutable up to a point, and their demand curves probably look more like Fig. 1 b. Here the de mand approaches infinity as the quantity avail able approaches zero (or some mm1mum;tutable up to a point, and their demand curves probably look more like Fig. 1 b. Here the de mand approaches infinity as the quantity avail able approaches zero (or some mm1mumnecessary level of services), and the consumer surplus (as well as the total economic value) ap proaches infinity. Demand curves for ecosystem;Fig. 1. Supply and demand curves, showing the definitions of cost, net rent and consumer surplus for normal goods (a) and some essential ecosystems services (b). See text for further explanation.;Fig. 1. Supply and demand curves, showing the definitions of cost, net rent and consumer surplus for normal goods (a) and some essential ecosystems services (b). See text for further explanation.services are very difficult, if not impossible, to estimate in practice. In addition, to the extent that ecosystem services cannot be increased or de creased by actions of the economic system, their supply curves are more nearly vertical, as shown in Fig. lb.;In this study we estimated the value per unitarea of each ecosystem service for each ecosystem type. To estimate this unit value we used (in order of preference) either (1) the sum of con sumer and producer surplus or (2) the net rent (or producer surplus) or (3) price times quantity as a proxy for the economic value of the service, assuming that the demand curve for ecosystem services looks more like Fig. 1 b than Fig. 1 a, and that therefore the area pbqc is a conservative underestimate of the area abc. We then multiplied the unit values times the surface area of each ecosystem to arrive at global totals.;As we have noted, the value of many types ofnatural capital and ecosystem services may not be easily traceable through well functioning markets, or may not show up in markets at all. For exam ple, the aesthetic enhancement of a forest may alter recreational expenditures at that site, but this change in expenditure bears no necessary relation to the value of the enhancement. Recreationists may value the improvement at 100, but transfer only 20 in spending from other recreational areas to the improved site. Enhanced wetlands quality may improve waste treatment, saving on potential treatment costs. For example, tertiary treatment by wetlands may save 100 in alternative treat ment. Existing treatment may cost only 30. The treatment cost savings does not show up in any market. There is very little relation between the value of services and observable current spending behaviour in many cases.;There is also no necessary relationship betweenthe valuation of natural capital service flows, even on the margin, and aggregate spending, or GNP, in the economy. This is true even if all capital service flows had an impact on well functioning markets. A large part of the contributions to