R. Costanza et a!. Ecological Economics 25 ( 1998) 315 11;R. Costanza et a!. Ecological Economics 25 ( 1998) 315 11of tropical forest and woodland types were com bined into tropical forests.;We conducted a thorough literature reviewand synthesized the information, along with a few original calculations, during a I week inten sive workshop at the new National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis (NCEAS) at the University of California at Santa Barbara. Supplementary Information lists the primary re sults for each ecosystem service and biome. Sup plementary Information includes all the estimates we could identify from the literature (from over 100 studies), their valuation methods, location and stated value. We converted each estimate into I994 USha I year 1 using the USA con sumer price index and other conversion factors as needed. These are listed in the notes to the Supplementary Information. For some estimates we also converted the service estimate into US equivalents using the ratio of purchasing power GNP per capita for the country of origin to that of the USA. This was intended to adjust for income effects. Where possible the estimates are stated as a range, based on the high and low values found in the literature, and an average value, with annotated comments as to methods and assumptions. We also included in the Sup plementary Information some estimates from the literature on total ecosystem value, mainly us ing energy analysis techniques (Costanza et al., I989). We did not include these estimates in any of the totals or averages given below, but only for comparison with the totals from the other techniques. Interestingly, these different methods showed fairly close agreement in the final results.;Each biome and each ecosystem service had itsspecial considerations. Detailed notes explaining each biome and each entry in Supplementary Information are given in notes following the table. More detailed descriptions of some of the ecosystems, their services and general valuation issues can be found in Daily (1997). Below we briefly discuss some general considerations that apply across the board.;1. Although we have attempted to include asmuch as possible, our estimate leaves out many categories of services, which have not yet been adequately studied for many ecosys tems. In addition, we could identify no valua tion studies for some major biomes (desert, tundra, icerock and cropland). As more and better information becomes available we ex pect the total estimated value to increase.;2. Current prices, which form the basis (eitherdirectly or indirectly) of many of the valua tion estimates, are distorted for a number of reasons, including the fact that they exclude the value of ecosystem services, household labour and the informal economy. In addi tion to this, there are differences between total value, consumer surplus, net rent (or producer surplus) and p x q, all of which are used to estimate unit values (Fig. I).;3. In many cases the values are based on thecurrent willingnesstopay of individuals for ecosystem services, even though these individ uals may be illinformed and their preferences may not adequately incorporate social fair ness, ecological sustainability and other im portant goals (Costanza and Falke, I997). In other words, if we actually lived in a world that was ecologically sustainable, socially fair and where everyone had perfect knowledge of their connection to ecosystem services, both market prices and surveys of willingnessto pay would yield very different results than they currently do, and the value of ecosystem services would probably increase.;4. In calculating the current value, we generallyassumed that the demand and supply curves look something like Fig. Ia. In reality, supply curves for many ecosystem services are more nearly inelastic vertical lines, and the demand curves probably look more like Fig. I b, ap proaching infinity as quantity goes to zero. Thus the consumer and producer surplus and thereby the total value of ecosystem services would also approach infinity.