Energy prices are likely to change considerably in the future relative to today. The price differences between fuels are also likely to change. This will cause problems for economic planners attempting to decide on new longterm investments in energy infrastructure such as power stations or energyintensive factories. Prices may change for reasons of supply and demand. For example, in a Growthist world of high oil demand but limited supply, oil prices are likely to keep increasing. Governmentimposed carbon taxes may make highcarbon fuels such as coal more expensive than natural gas or renewable energy sources.;Technology and geology together with policy are therefore all sources of considerable uncertainty around the planning of sustainable energy systems. The energy future might be business as usual or we might be entering a period of great turbulence in the worlds energy systems.;(1) managing human population levelse.g. speeding up the demographic transition in developing countries so that poverty is reduced, education improved and fertility rates decline;(3) reducing the amount of energy required to produce a unit of GDP inthe economy (e.g. through investment in energy efficiency);The four options can be explored with what has become known as the Kaya Identity (Box 1. 7).;Options 1 and 2 are outside the scope of this book, which will concentrate on options 3 and 4. From these two options we can identify three key approaches to improving the sustainability of human energy use in the future (a) using energy more efficiently in its conversion, distribution and consumption, thus improving the energy intensity of the GDP (bl reducing the CO2 emissions of fossil fuel technologies, i.e. improving their carbon intensity (c) switching to renewable andor nuclear energy sources on a much wider scale, thus improving the overall carbon intensity of the energy supply.;The Kaya Identity is a simple formula used to explore the options available to reduce CO2 emissions from energy systems at both the global and the national level. It calculates CO2 emissions, F, as a product of terms such as the population, P, and income expressed in terms of the gross domestic product, G. (IPCC, 2003).;National comparisons of the first two of these ratios will Le discussed in Chapters 2 and 3 while the carbon intensity of some different fuels has been described in Box 1.5. Data on national and global energy use, CO2 emissions, GDP and population can be found in IEA, 2010b.;Approach (a) is known as a demandside response and can involve both technological and behavioural changes in the consumption part of an energy system. The two other approaches are supplyside responses and are largely technological.;Many energy technologies have been evolving towards more efficient designs over time. On the supply side, the modern combined cycle gas turbine (CCGT) power plant can generate electricity more efficiently than its coalfired steam turbine counterpart. The waste heat from power stations (of all sizes) can be used for heating buildings by using combined eat and power generation (CHP). Both of these technologies are described m hapter 9. On the demand side, the efficiency, or more precisely the eff,ac, of lighting has improved by a factor of more than 300 since the begmnmg of the nineteenth century (Chapters 3 and 9). The efficiency of domestic heating has increased from about 25 for a coal fire to over 9o for a modern condensing gas boiler (Chapter 7). The ener0 y demand or domestic heating can also be dramatically reduced through the use of imroved insulation (Chapter 14). However, the development of the motor car 15 perhaps an example of a technology where for many years size, power