This chapter introduces the main themes of the book. It explains what is meant by energy systems and gives an overview of our present global energy system in terms of the primary energy sources it uses. It then elaborates on the concepts of sustainable development and sustainability and continues with an overview of how these might apply specifically to energy systems. In order to explore why sustainable energy matters it then compares three different perspectives on some of the critical factors and forces that may shape energy systems into the future. The chapter ends by briefly outlining three basic options for achieving a transition from our present energy systems to the sustainable energy systems of tomorrow.;The word energy, when it first appeared in English in the 16th century, had no scientific meaning at all. Based on a Greek word used by Aristotle, it meant forceful or vigorous language. It was not until the early 1800s that the concept of energy in the modern sense was developed by scientists to describe and compare their observations about the behaviour of such diverse phenomena as the transfer of heat, the motion of bodies, the operation of machinery and the flow of electricity. Today, the standard scientific definition is that energy is the capacity to do work that is, to move an object against a resisting force.;In everyday language, the word power is often used as a synonym for electricity or energy  and indeed in this book the three words will occasionally be used in this rather loose way merely as substitutes for each other. But when speaking scientifically, power is the rate of doing work, that is, the rate at which energy is converted from one form to another, or transmitted from one place to another. The main unit of measurement of energy is the joule (J) and the main unit of measurement of power is the watt (W), which is defined as a rate of one joule per second. The twin concepts of energy and power will be discussed in more detail in Chapter 2, and the subject of electricity in Chapters 4 and 9.