14 ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYthe range of different fuels (coal, oil, natural gas, nuclear, renewables), and across all regions of the world. The IEAs models calculate energy demand as the product of changes in population, incomes and technological change, using around sixteen thousand mathematical equations. In 2010, the Agency in its annual World Energy Outlook (IEA, 2010a) included a Current Policies scenario describing a Business As Usual (BAU) future for the world energy system to 2035 (Figure 1.10). This shows total world energy consumption growing by around 67 by 2035 compared with 2010 and overall fuel shares remaining unchanged.;One of the criticisms of the forecasts of mainstream energyeconomic models is that they fail to take adequately into account the fact that steady exponential growth is in the long term environmentally unsustainable. Systems can and do exhibit exponential growth from time to time, but cannot do so indefinitely (Box 1.4).;The graphical representation of any quantity that is increasing by the same amount every year (or day, or decade) will of course be a straight line. So this type of growth is referred to as linear growth. Figure 1.4, for instance, shows that in the period since about 1960 world population increased more or less linearly from 3 billion to nearly 7 billion in 50 years an average annual increase of about 80 million people per year.;100which results in a Year 2 consumption of 3307.5 Mt, and so on.;This type of rise, where the value increases by the same percentage in each year (i.e. by the same relative amount), is technically exponential growth (commonly called steady exponential growth). Notice that this is quite different from the linear growth discussed above.;With the same annual growth rate, the actual (or absolute) annual increase becomes greater each year, so exponential growth will be represented on a graph by an upward curve. Figure 1.11 shows how the above annual oil consumption of 3 Gt (3 gigatonnes, or 3000Mt) in Year O would increase over a period of 60 years, at two different annual growth rates, 5 and 2.5.;As the name indicates, the doubling time for any increasing quantity is the time taken for it to double. It is perhaps less obvious that in exponential growth (because of the unvarying annual growth rate) the doubling time is the same no matter where you start. Consider, for instance, the 5 curve in Figure 1.11. The annual consumption in Year 10 is about 5 Gt, and moving forward from this we find that consumption reaches 10 Gt at about Year 25  a doubling time of slightly less than 15 years. This is confirmed by further doublings at about Year 39 and again at Year 53, the increasing accuracy leading to the conclusion that the doubling time is about 14 years.;It is also worth noting that the doubling time for the 2.5 curve appears to be just under 30 years  twice that of the 5 line. As Table 1.2 shows, there is an inverse relationship between percentage increase and doubling time.;... (.!) so c 0  Q. 40 E ,  30 C 0 u o 20 ni , C C 10 ..;The following simple relationship between growth rate and doubling time, although it does not give precise values, can be very useful for rough estimatesd bl. t . 70 ou mg 1me m years  , annual percentage growth rate;Continued exponential growth has disturbing consequences if it reflects the consumption of a finite commodity (such as a fossil fuel). Figure 1.12 shows the 5 line of Figure 1.11 redrawn with its time axis expressed not in years but in terms of doubling times. Over the period of the first doubling time, the total amount of fuel consumed, the sum of all the individual annual quantities, is represented by the yellow area under the curve.;The amount consumed over the next doubling period is represented by the light red area. This is obviously larger than the yellow area for the previous period, and so on, in successive doubling periods. What is perhaps not so obvious is that the total fuel consumed over the period of the fourth doubling (the black area) is in fact slightly greater than the sum of the preceding yellow, light red and dark red areas. For another (fifth) doubling to take place at the same growth rate would require more fuel to be available than is represented by all of the yellow, light red, dark red and black areas.