2 EN ERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILIT Yreliant on coal throughout much of the twentieth century. For most of that time government energy policy meant coal policy. However, after World War 2 there was an era of relatively cheap oil supplies from the Middle East. By the 1960s oil was cheap enough in the UK to displace coal from power station use. Then in 1973 came the Yorn Kippur War between Egypt, Syria and Israel. World oil prices rose fourfold in a matter of months (see Figure 1.1). Oil prices rose again in 1979 with revolution and war in Iran.;reliant on coal throughout much of the twentieth century. For most of that time government energy policy meant coal policy. However, after World War 2 there was an era of relatively cheap oil supplies from the Middle East. By the 1960s oil was cheap enough in the UK to displace coal from power station use. Then in 1973 came the Yorn Kippur War between Egypt, Syria and Israel. World oil prices rose fourfold in a matter of months (see Figure 1.1). Oil prices rose again in 1979 with revolution and war in Iran.a IranIraq War begins, alltime high of;Vl 2 80 prices rise on f lraqWar and ... c,I rapid demand ..0 ... 60  increases QI c.. l;QI u c 40 c.. QI  c,I  QI  20;QI u c 40 c.. QI  c,I  QI  20iij , i i 0 c,I 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 year;Figure 1.1 Annual average inflationcorrected oil prices (in US2009) and related global events, 195020 IO (source BP. 20 I 0 EIA. 20 I I);These price shocks convinced many governments that they should have some kind of energy policy. The Danes, for example, had become highly reliant on imported oil. Their response to the oil shocks involved fuel switching (from oil to coal), energy conservation and the promotion of renewable energy, as will be described in Chapter 3. This thinking required not just a fuel policy but careful analysis of a whole national energy system. The concept of an energy system is described in Box 1.1.;A system is a set of interconnected entities that are part of an integrated whole. A key element in systems thinking is in choosing where to draw a system boundary for analysis purposes (Figure 1.2). Whatever is outside the boundary is considered part of the systems environment. There may be flows (of materials, pollution or money) in either direction across this boundary between the system and its environment.;A modest energy system might, for example, comprise a coalfired power station fed with coal from a local mine and providing electricity to consumers in a local city. The system boundary might be drawn to include all of these. A system optimisation might consider what energy service the electricity actually provides. If it is illumination, it might assess the benefits of using more efficient light bulbs in order to reduce the consumption of coal.;CHAPTER I INT RODUCIN G EN ERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYsystems environment ,,,,,,,.. ..............;  I  I  I I I I    ,     ,.,,.,.,,.  ....    system boundary;Figure 1.2 A system is distinguished from its surrounding environment by a system boundary .;The systems environment is everything that is outside the system boundary. If acid rain pollution from the power station damages trees in a neighbouring country, that is damage done to the environment of the system.;However, normally the word environment is used to mean the natural environment i.e. the Earths atmosphere, oceans and other parts of the biosphere. This can perhaps be interpreted as everything that is outside the boundary of a very large system a system that includes all of humanitys energy uses (but humanity itself is part of the biosphere). Where pollution from an energy system damages the natural environment (and that includes the health of people) then an environmental cost has been incurred.;This book focuses mainly on the technological aspects of energy systems  the set of energy sources, technologies, transmission, distribution, storage and management systems that we use to produce the energy services that we need (see Figure 1.3).;This book focuses mainly on the technological aspects of energy systems  the set of energy sources, technologies, transmission, distribution, storage and management systems that we use to produce the energy services that we need (see Figure 1.3).fossil fuels (chs 5, 6,7, 8, 14);What are the characteristics of todays energy systems? Box 1.2 describes the growth in world primary energy consumption since 1850 which has paralleled a rise in both world population and world GDP.