The greenhouse effect in its natural form has existed on the planet for hundreds of millions of years and is essential in maintaining the Earths surface at a temperature suitable for nearly all life. Without it, we would all freeze.;The Suns radiant energy, as it falls on the Earth, warms its surface. The Earth in turn reradiates heat energy back into space in the form of infrared radiation. The temperature of the Earth establishes itself at an equilibrium level at which the incoming energy from the Sun exactly balances the outgoing infrared radiation (Figure 1.19).;If the Earth had no atmosphere, its surface temperature would be approximately minus 18 C, well below the freezing point of water. However, our atmosphere, whilst largely transparent to incoming solar radiation in the visible part of the spectrum, is partially opaque to outgoing infrared (long wavelength) radiation. It behaves in this way because, in addition to its main constituents, nitrogen and oxygen, it also contains water vapour and other very small quantities of greenhouse gases. Put simply, these inhibit the outflow of heat, so keeping the Earths surface considerably warmer than it would;If the Earth had no atmosphere, its surface temperature would be approximately minus 18 C, well below the freezing point of water. However, our atmosphere, whilst largely transparent to incoming solar radiation in the visible part of the spectrum, is partially opaque to outgoing infrared (long wavelength) radiation. It behaves in this way because, in addition to its main constituents, nitrogen and oxygen, it also contains water vapour and other very small quantities of greenhouse gases. Put simply, these inhibit the outflow of heat, so keeping the Earths surface considerably warmer than it wouldsolar radiation scattered by atmosphere and refle;100otherwise be. The average surface temperature of the Earth is in fact around 15 C, some 33 C warmer than it would be without the greenhouse effect.;The net energy gain due to incoming solar radiation that penetrates the atmosphere as shown in Figure 1.19 is 69 units (100 incoming 31 reflected). The net loss of infrared energy escaping to space is also 69 units (57  12  69 units). The incoming and outgoing radiation are therefore balanced, and the Earth is in thermal equilibrium.;Carbon dioxide (CO2) is primarily generated by natural processes. These include the process of cellular respiration, in which organisms expel carbon dioxide and the emissions of CO2 that occur when organisms die and decompose. But since the Industrial;Carbon dioxide (CO2) is primarily generated by natural processes. These include the process of cellular respiration, in which organisms expel carbon dioxide and the emissions of CO2 that occur when organisms die and decompose. But since the Industrialescaping to space;Figure 1.19 The greenhouse effect raises the Earths temperature by reducing the amount of shortwave solar radiation that is reflected directly to space. Without an atmosphere the average global surface temperature would be lower by about 33 C;C 0 .E ... C QI u C 0 u u  QI   ;Revolution, the burning of fossil fuels by humanity has been adding substantial quantities of CO2 to our atmosphere. The concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere in preindustrial times was around 280 parts per million by volume (ppmv) but levels have been steadily rising since then, reaching some 390 ppmv in 2010 (See Figure 1.20(a).;Methane is given off naturally when vegetation decays in the absence of oxygen  for example, under water. However, various human activities, including increasing rice cultivation which causes methane emissions from paddy fields. intensive farming of livestock and leaks of fossil methane from natural gas distribution systems, have caused the levels of methane in the atmosphere to increase sharply. Concentrations have risen from about 750 ppbv (parts per billion by volume) in preindustrial times to around 1790 ppbv in 2010.;These additional emissions of carbon dioxide and methane (as well as some other gases) are the main causes of the socalled anthropogenic greenhouse effect. The increase in carbon dioxide concentration is responsible for just over three times more global warming than the increase in methane concentrations. Radiative forcing is a concept that allows us to sum up the contribution of different quantities of different greenhouse gases to global warming. The comparative radiative forcing of these greenhouse gases, and others, is discussed in Chapter 13.