As shown in Figure 1 .1 there were rapid increases iu crude oil prices in the 1970s followed by a return to lower prices again in the 1990s. Oil prices began to rise again after 2000, as did others linked to the its price. Substantial rises can cause widespread economic disruption (as they did in 1973 and for many years after). They can lead to widespread protests, as seen in 2007 and 2008 when prices temporarily reached just under US150 per barrel. Amongst other things, this caused significant increases in the price of basic foods (e.g. grain), which in turn sparked food riots in this period in Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The world relies on oil and natural gas to produce most of its food. We use oil in farming and for the distribution of food. Currently, natural gas (the price of which tends to rise and fall in line with that of oil) is used as a hydrogen source to make fertilizer. It is possible that social stability and economic growth are sensitive to energy prices above a certain critical threshold.;The nuclear industry has traditionally argued that there is little danger of the world running out of nuclear fuel in the near future but there is also a peakist perspective on the uranium resource. Although uranium resources have been identified in many countries, roughly twothirds of the worlds recoverable resource and production is in just five countries (see Chapter 11). Current uranium demand is significantly higher than supply and there is a significant chance that future supplies will struggle to follow present levels of demand, let alone be sufficient for a nuclear renaissance.;On the other hand, nuclear proponents argue that advanced nuclear technologies such as the fast breeder reactor (FBR) should enable uranium deposits to be used even more effectively, thus extending the lifetime of reserves. The FBR design relies on converting the nonfissile isotope uranium238 into fissile plutonium239 for use as a reactor fuel. Its development has been inhibited by the technical and safety difficulties of fuel reprocessing to extract this plutonium and concerns about the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Given the current low price of uranium, this technology remains economically uncompetitive.;The massive use by our society of coal, oil and natural gas has, literally, fuelled enormous increases in material prosperity  at least for the majority in the industrialized countries. But it has also had numerous adverse consequences. Fossil fuel combustion generates large quantities of carbon dioxide (CO2)  nearly 30 billion tonnes in 2009. Different fossil fuels produce different amounts of CO2 per unit of energy delivered (see Box 1.5).;Different types of fossil fuel contain different proportions of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen (and other elements such as sulfur). This is because coal, oil and natural gas have different molecular structures. At room temperature coal is solid, oil is liquid and natural gas is gaseous  this itself gives us a clue as to their different molecular complexities.;Coal contains a complex mixture of different molecules. Although mainly carbon it can also contain complex aromatic hydrocarbons which have a hexagonal molecular structure. Oil is a similarly a complex mixture of mainly aliphatic hydrocarbons in long chains, while natural gas is a mixture of mainly methane and some ethane which have small molecules. The different fossil fuels have different ratios of carbon to hydrogen (natural gas contains a higher ratio of hydrogen than coal). This ratio governs both their energy density and the amount of carbon dioxide emitted for every unit of heat produced when they are burned. As a fuel, natural gas contains nearly twice as much energy per kilogram as coal, but only emits 60 as much CO2 when burned (see Table 1.3).;Rising greenhouse gas concentrations are causing the Earths temperature to increase rapidly  certainly, in comparison with the Earths natural cycles of climate change recorded over the last few million years. This is highly likely to cause significant changes in the worlds climate system (see Box 1.6).