As the name suggests, the release of nuclear energy results from changes in the nuclei of atoms. The present nuclear power plants derive their energy from the splitting, or fission, of the nuclei of very heavy isotopes such as uranium235 and plutonium239. The feature that makes this process attractive is the very high energy density of the fuel. In principle, the complete fission of one kilogram of uranium235 would release as much energy as the complete combustion of over 3000 tonnes of coal. This is not yet fully achieved in practice, but nevertheless nuclear fuels are much more concentrated sources of the heat needed to produce steam in power stations than fossil fuels. (Later chapters discuss all these aspects in more detail.);Since the UK opened the worlds first gridconnected nuclear power station at Calder Hall in Cumbria in 1956, nuclear electricity generation has expanded to a point where it now accounts for 5 of world primary energy and for approximately 13 of the worlds electricity (see Figure 10.1). In some countries, it is the principal source of electricity generation. France, for example, derives nearly 80 of its electricity from nuclear power.;Energy is also released in the fusion of two light nuclei. This was the principle of the hydrogen bomb, but in that case the energy was released as an explosion  by definition an uncontrolled process. Controlled fusion has been achieved, but fifty years of research effort have yet to lead to a system that produces a sustained energy output greater than the energy input needed to run it. So a successful fusion power plant remains elusive, and the present consensus of most experts is that this technology is unlikely to become commercially available for many more decades.;Fossil and nuclear fuels are often termed nonrenewable energy sources. This is because, although the quantities in which they are available on Earth may be extremely large, they will become increasingly difficult and expensive to extract in the future. Discoveries of new reserves that are cheap to extract are unlikely to keep pace with their consumption. In this sense their supply is finite and therefore nonrenewable.;By contrast, hydropower and bioenergy (from biofuels), together with solar, wind and wave power, are examples of renewable energy sources  that is, sources that are continuously replenished by natural processes. Renewable energy sources are essentially flows of energy, whereas the fossil and nuclear fuels are, in essence, stocks of energy.;Worldwide, there has been a rapid rise in the development and deployment of renewable energy sources during the past few decades. This is not only because, unlike fossil or nuclear fuels, there is no danger of their running out, but also because their use normally entails only small greenhouse gas emissions and therefore contributes little to global climate change.;The various renewable energy options will be described further in Chapter 14. They include solar power in its various forms, biomass, and hydro, wind, wave, tidal and geothermal epergy (Figure 1.9). The 3.7 million EJ per year of solar energy available for use on Earth is over 8000 times the current rate of consumption of fossil and nuclear fuels (around 440 EJ in 2009). Two other, nonsolar, renewable energy sources are shown in Figure 1.9 these are the motion of the ocean tides, caused principally by the Moons gravitational pull (with a small contribution from the Suns gravity) and geothermal heat from the Earths interior, which manifests itself in convection in volcanoes and hot springs, and in conduction in rocks.;The various renewable energy options will be described further in Chapter 14. They include solar power in its various forms, biomass, and hydro, wind, wave, tidal and geothermal epergy (Figure 1.9). The 3.7 million EJ per year of solar energy available for use on Earth is over 8000 times the current rate of consumption of fossil and nuclear fuels (around 440 EJ in 2009). Two other, nonsolar, renewable energy sources are shown in Figure 1.9 these are the motion of the ocean tides, caused principally by the Moons gravitational pull (with a small contribution from the Suns gravity) and geothermal heat from the Earths interior, which manifests itself in convection in volcanoes and hot springs, and in conduction in rocks.solar radiation direct conversion to heat in air,;solar radiation direct conversion to heat in air,earth and oceans (49) 2.65 million EJ y 1 direct reflection to space (31 ) 1.67 million EJ y1;earth and oceans (49) 2.65 million EJ y 1 direct reflection to space (31 ) 1.67 million EJ y1convection in volcanoes and hot springs 9.36 EJ y1;Figure 1.9 The various forms of renewable energy depend primarily on incoming solar radiation, which totals some 5.4 million exaioules (EJ) per year. Of this, approximately 30 is reflected back into space. The remaining 70 is in principle available for use on Earth, as shown, and amounts to approximately 3.7 million EJ.