Nuclear power has grown in importance since its inception just after World War II and now supplies some 5 of world primary energy. A major advantage of nuclear power plants, in contrast with fossil fuelled power stations, is that they do not emit greenhouse gases in their operation. However, greenhouse gas emissions are involved in both the construction of power plants and in uranium mining. Those from mining may increase if lower grades of ore have to be used in the future. The use of nuclear power, as will be described in Chapters 11 and 13, gives rise to particular problems;Nuclear power has grown in importance since its inception just after World War II and now supplies some 5 of world primary energy. A major advantage of nuclear power plants, in contrast with fossil fuelled power stations, is that they do not emit greenhouse gases in their operation. However, greenhouse gas emissions are involved in both the construction of power plants and in uranium mining. Those from mining may increase if lower grades of ore have to be used in the future. The use of nuclear power, as will be described in Chapters 11 and 13, gives rise to particular problemsthe everpresent possibility of major nuclear accidents which, although rare, can have catastrophic effects. difficulties of longterm radioactive waste disposal routine emissions of radioactive substances dangers from the proliferation of nuclear weapons.;Although the majority of nuclear reactors in most countries have operated without serious safely problems, a number of major accidents, like those at Windscale in the UK in 1957, Three Mile Island in the USA in 1979, Chernobyl in Ukraine in 1986 and Fukushima in Japan in 2011 have created widespread public unease about nuclear technology in general. The Chernobyl accident led to the widespread cancellation of orders for new nuclear power stations in Europe and the USA.;Despite these difficulties, the nuclear industry has been attempting to develop more advanced types of nuclear reactor which, it claims, will be cheaper to build and operate, and inherently safer, than existing designs. These are being promoted as an improved technological option for generating the carbonfree electricity that will be required in the twentyfirst century. The moratorium on new nuclear construction following Chernobyl turned into a renewed interest in the first decade of the twentyfirst century in many countries, particularly in Asia. It seemed that there might be a nuclear renaissance. In Europe, the construction of two new reactors was;CHAPTER I INTRODUCING ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYstarted, one in Finland and one in France. The Fukushima accident appears to have swung opinion back against nuclear power, particularly in Germany, Switzerland and Italy in favour of other renewable and sustainable energy alternatives.;Each of the perspectives discussed above are to some extent extreme simplifications. They are not mutually exclusive  there are sophisticated arguments about how they constructively or destructively interfere with each other (Figure 1.24). Belief in one, two or all three of these perspectives produces different shades of argument and overlapping sets of policy prescriptions. Some environmentalists are growthists who are pronuclear while others are antinuclear and prorenewables. Moreover, not all growthists believe we are far from peakoil or are sceptical about climate change.;In the absence of a significant technological breakthrough  a technological silver bullet such as cheap nuclear fusion or some as yet undiscovered advanced solar energy technology  average energy prices are likely to increase significantly in real terms. Some may argue that this would be a good thing as it may help limit energy demand it may also accelerate our search for affordable, cleaner and more sustainable sources of energy. This is particularly important for the two billion or so poorest people in the world that do not have enough energy available to them to lead healthy and fulfilled lives. This is a major barrier to their social and economic development.;3. Weve got plenty of options to solve climate change  but I am concerned that we are running out of cheaper energy supplies and this could impact on global economic growth rates.;3. Weve got plenty of options to solve climate change  but I am concerned that we are running out of cheaper energy supplies and this could impact on global economic growth rates.peakist;4. Economic prosperity is the key to solving the twin problems of maintaining energy supply and combamng climate change.;4. Economic prosperity is the key to solving the twin problems of maintaining energy supply and combamng climate change.growthist;2. Consumption is at the heart of the matter. We cant go on consuming as we do. The bad news is that we are changing the Earths climate. The good news at least is that we may be running out of cheap oil and gas, possibly coal.