24 ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYcertainly the cause of a global warming trend that will have very serious consequences for the Earths ecosystems and in turn humanity. Though a small minority dissents, the majority of scientists now believe that the activities of modern humans, acting to enhance the natural processes, has already caused the mean surface temperature of the Earth to rise by about 0.8 C during the twentieth century (IPCC, 2007) ;certainly the cause of a global warming trend that will have very serious consequences for the Earths ecosystems and in turn humanity. Though a small minority dissents, the majority of scientists now believe that the activities of modern humans, acting to enhance the natural processes, has already caused the mean surface temperature of the Earth to rise by about 0.8 C during the twentieth century (IPCC, 2007) to adapt quickly enough to such rapid changes in climate.;In addition, at the same time, owing to thermal expansion of the oceans, sea levels are predictedsee Figure 1.20(b). Moreover, if steps are not taken to limit greenhouse gas emissions (i.e. if business as;see Figure 1.20(b). Moreover, if steps are not taken to limit greenhouse gas emissions (i.e. if business asto rise by up to half a metre during the twentyfirst century, sufficient to submerge some lowlying areas and islands (Figure 1.21). In the longer term, further sea level rises would result if parts of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets were to begin to melt. These problems will be described further in Chapter 13.;to rise by up to half a metre during the twentyfirst century, sufficient to submerge some lowlying areas and islands (Figure 1.21). In the longer term, further sea level rises would result if parts of the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets were to begin to melt. These problems will be described further in Chapter 13.usual policies are pursued), atmospheric CO2 levels will probably rise by 2100 to around 560 ppmv  around double the preindustrial levels (or possibly more, depending on the assumptions made). These levels would be likely to lead to rises in the Earths mean surface temperature of between 1.1 and 6.4 C by the end of the twentyfirst century. These temperature rises would be very likely to result in significant changes to the Earths climate system. Such changes would probably include more intense rainfall, more tropical cyclones and more long periods of drought, all of which would disrupt agriculture. Moreover, ecosystems will be damaged, with some species unable;Most if not all energy options and technologies have environmental and social impacts of one form or another (e.g. air, water, land pollution, materials resource constraints, social impacts  see Chapter 13). Among these, global climate change has become the main focus of environmentalists attention as the principal challenge and design constraint on the energy economy of the future. Our energy options are now severely limited by the need to reduce our emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in our efforts to limit global warming and climate change. If we are to meet global objectives to stabilize the Earths climate, we must dramatically cut our use of fossil fuels or find ways of using them whilst capturing the carbon dioxide released during combustion.;At the international Copenhagen Climate Conference in 2009 a target was agreed to limit global warming to 2 C above its preindustrial average. Scientific analysis suggests that ifwe are to have a 50 chance of stabilizing the global temperature at this level then emissions of CO2 must peak in the next decade and then decline rapidly to around half of todays levels by 2050 (Allen et al., 2009). The energy use in one such scenario is shown in Figure 1.22. In this, the IEAs Blue Map scenario, although world primary energy use increases between 2010 and 2050, world fossil fuel;Figure 1.22 An example of a (pronuclear) environmentalist perspective the IEAs Blue Map Energy Scenario for 20 IO to 2050 (sources BP, 20 IO IEA, 20 I Oc)use diminishes. It envisages global emissions of CO2 declining by 50 by 2050, with the aim of limiting global warming by less than 2 C  though the IEA notes that deeper cuts will probably be required to achieve this. The environmentalist perspective it illustrates is similar to a peakist one in that fossil fuel use declines. However, in the peakist view it does so from scarcity (and with, no doubt, high prices). In the environmentalist perspective the decline is driven by global policies and in a world where fossil fuel supplies may still be cheaply available. However, it does only describe what may happen rather than forecasting what is likely to happen. This scenario is discussed further in Chapter 14.;If fossil fuels were likely to be cheap and in plentiful supply over the course of this century this would present us with a very challenging problem. Perhaps, fortunately, from the point of view of climate change, our fossil fuel resources are finite. Exactly how much we have left is, as we have seen, the subject of much scientific dispute.;All fuels and energy technologies have their negative social and enviromnental impacts (see Chapter 13) that act to constrain our energy optwns m a variety of ways on a regional, national and local basis. While glo?ally there is an abundance of renewable energy from the Sun, at a national and local level there are various limits to the amount ofrenewable ener that can be accessed (for example water and soil nutrient constraints for biomass crops or variations in solar radiation intensity in the case of photovoltaics).;Tf he 1 re is no doubt that the extraction, distribution and burning of fossilue s does signific t d h . . . an amage to uman health and ecological systems. This;ue s does signific t d h . . . an amage to uman health and ecological systems. Thisnay be au pollution from combustion, producing sulfur dioxide oxides of nitrogen and part l t I b , . . icu a es. t may e due to fires and explosions on oil or gas ngs with resulting 1 11 (F;0 fl. 01 spi s igure 1.23) or it may involve mining accidents r con icts over ac t fu 1 in tl f cess O e resources. But, perhaps most profoundly;0 fl. 01 spi s igure 1.23) or it may involve mining accidents r con icts over ac t fu 1 in tl f cess O e resources. But, perhaps most profoundlyresutt 0fm of t?days global climate change that is almost certainly th; 0 mcreasing atmo h  b d . . fossil f I b . sp enc car on 10x1de concentrat10ns caused by ue com ustton.