On average, world primary energy consumption per capita (i.e. per person) in 2009, including traditional biomass, was about 74 thousand million joules (74 gigajoules), which is equivalent to about 1.75 tonnes of oil per person per year, or about;But this average conceals major differences between the inhabitants of different regions. As Figure 1. 7 illustrates, North Americans annually consume the equivalent of more than 6 tonnes of oil per head, whereas residents of Europe consume about half that amount, and the inhabitants of the rest of the world use only about onetenth. 5. 5 litres of oil per day.;Figure 1.7 Per capita energy consumption in tonnes of oil equivalent per year in 2009 for different regions of the world. Note that these figures include only commercially traded fuels (i.e. they exclude traditional biofuels). The majority of the 1.4 billion or so people living in energy poverty and lacking access to electricity in 2009 live in rural areas in the lighter shaded parts of the map. (source BP, 20 I 0);Until the Industrial Revolution at the beginning of the nineteenth century human energy requirements were modest. Most came from natural processes such as the growth of plants. This provided wood for heating and cooking and also food, not just for humans but also for the millions of draft animals used to provide mechanical power. The power of water and the wind was also used to drive simple machinery. The wind was the principal power source for shipping. As described in Box 1.2, there has been an almost continuous growth in world energy use over the past 150 years. There has also been a continuous change in the proportions of the different energy sources (Figure 1.8). Coal became the dominant fuel source at the end of the nineteenth century. It was overtaken by oil as the dominant source in the 1960s. The contribution from natural gas and nuclear power has risen in the late twentieth century. It is likely that these transitions from one form of fuel to another will continue in the twentyfirst century.; . 70 E c  0   60 Q. ... Q.;J! E ... , 50 0  C 08 40  eo 30 nl 41 ..c C  41;Figure 1.8 Percentage shares of world primary energy consumption 18502009. Note that the percentages shown are shares of a rising total (sources BP, 20 IO IEA, 2009 Maddison, 2005 Maddison, 2009 Boden et al., 20 I 0);Fossil fuels are composed mainly of carbon and hydrogen, which is why they are called hydrocarbons, and they are extremely attractive as energy sources. They are highly concentrated, enabling large amounts of energy to be stored and distributed relatively easily.;During the twentieth century, these unique advantages enabled the development of increasingly sophisticated and effective technologies for transforming fossil fuel energy into other forms of energy and eventually useful energy services. Fossil fuels may be used to provide mechanical power for manufacturing industries heat for warm buildings and cooked food artificial lighting, to illuminate our buildings and surroundings cooling, particularly for the preservation of food mechanical power for the transportation of people and goods electric power for communication and our digital world.;The fossil fuels we use today originated in the growth and decay of plants and marine organisms that existed on the Earth millions of years ago. Coal was formed when dead trees and other vegetation became submerged under water, did not completely rot, and were subsequently compressed, by geological processes lasting millions of years, into concentrated solid layers below the Earths surface. Oil and associated natural gas originally consisted of the remains of countless billions of marine organisms that slow I y accreted into layers beneath the Earths oceans and were gradually transformed, through geological forces acting over aeons of time, into the liquid and gaseous reserves we access today by drilling into the Earths crust.