30 ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYand speed have taken precedence over energy efficiency. The principles of modern fuel efficient hybrid petrolelectric cars are described in Chapters 9 and 14. This book does not aim to deal with energy efficiency in detail, but more information will be found in Harvey, 2010.;There are a range of technologies that can be used to reduce these emissions. Fuel switching from coal to natural gas has significantly reduced both the carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide emissions of UK power stations (Chapter 9). However, given the worlds limited supplies of natural gas this cannot be described as being long term a sustainable option. A major future development is that of carbon capture and storage (CCS), technologies which capture the carbon dioxide emitted from power stations and sequester it deep underground, rather than allowing it to escape into the atmosphere. This is of particular interest where coal is used as the fuel. These technologies are described in Chapter 14. Some CCS technologies involve the production of hydrogen that can also be used for electricity generation in fuel cells, which have considerable possibilities for road vehicles. Chapter 14 also describes a possible future hydrogen economy where hydrogen is widely used in power stations, homes, vehicles and even aircraft. Although CCS does significantly reduce the emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants, it requires more fossil fuel to produce the same amount of electricity, possibly making future problems of resource depletion even worse.;The use of renewable and nuclear energy usually involves environmental impacts of some kind, but these are normally lower than those of fossil sources in terms of CO2 emissions. The environmental and other impacts of various forms of energy will be discussed in Chapter 13. Nuclear energy will be described in Chapters 10 and 11. Renewable energy will be described briefly in Chapter 14.;In the UK just after World War II most homes and other buildings were heated by coal. Most electricity generation was coalfired, and most rail transport was propelled by coalburning steam engines. Coal combustion caused major pollution problems, including the notorious London smogs.;Motor cars were still owned only by a minority and air travel was confined to a small elite. Most people travelled by bus, train, cycle or on foot. Journeys were relatively few, compared with today, and usually over quite short distances.;Since the late 1940s, the UKs energy systems have been transformed. Natural gas, which burns much more cleanly and efficiently, was introduced very rapidly to British homes and buildings from the 1970s, after its discovery beneath the North Sea, and has now replaced coal as the main heating fuel for buildings. Most homes now have gasfired central heating systems which ensure that the whole house is maintained at a comfortable temperature.;Coal is still used for electricity generation, but flue gas desulfurization and electrostatic precipitators now greatly reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and particulates. Sulfur is removed from natural gas at source and it is also refined out of motor fuel. In new power stations, coal is increasingly being replaced by natural gas, which can be burned very cleanly and efficiently using combined cycle gas turbines (CCGT). Nuclear power, since its modest beginnings at Calder Hall in 1956, now contributes about onefifth of UK electricity.;Cars are now owned by the majority, air travel overseas has become a mass market, railways are powered mainly by electricity, and travel overall, measured in passengerkilometres, has quadrupled since the 1950s (Figure 1.25) ifter a short 20year period of being a net oil exporter, thanks to its North Sea reserves, the UK has recently returned to being a net oil importer, as it was before the 1970s.;The dramatic changes that have occurred in the UKs energy systems durmgthe past 50 years have, broadly, been paralleled in most developed coutnes over the same period. Examples of changing patterns of ener0 v use m oth  c,.  er countrrns are given in Chapters 2 and 3.