12 ENERGY SYSTEMS AND SUSTAINABILITYrecent past  we continue to chop down forests faster than we replace them. Global deforestation is not sustainable and in some developing countries it is driven in part by energy poverty itself the need for cheap, local supplies of fuel for cooking and heating, because rural populations often do not have access to adequate energy supplies.;As Table 1.1 shows, the vast majority of our current primary energy supplies do not meet one or more of the three requirements of a sustainable energy source listed above.;Given current energy technologies (2010), the category of energy sources that stands out in Table 1.1 as best matching the requirements of a sustainable energy system is new renewables this includes wind, solar thermal, solar electricity, modern biomass, geothermal, wave and tidal energy technologies. Future technological developments may improve the sustainability of other energy sources. For example the use of carbon capture and storage with coal or gasfired power stations should reduce their emitted pollutants (but may make their resource depletion rating worse).;Also the three requirements set out in the table do not include any economic considerations. These might include the benefits of a cheap energy supply to those on a low income or the true financial damage costs of pollution, a subject to be discussed in Chapter 13. In this sense, the three criteria represent a strong view of sustainability as applied to energy systems.;(2) The supply of conventional oil and natural gas (and possibly coal) may be insufficient to meet future energy demand therefore the global mix of energy sources is likely to change in the coming decades. (3) Our energy options are now severely constrained by the need to reduce the worlds emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases, as part of our efforts to limit anthropogenic climate change (i.e. that produced by human activities).;Each of these reasons represents a particular perspective on the future. Indeed, each reason has behind it a community of champions (often dedicated and enthusiastic) who argue strongly in support of their perspective and advocate how the world should respond. We can label these three communities Growthists, whose focus is on economic or what are sometimes called in this context above ground factors (e.g. what are future energy prices or economic growth rates likely to be or who might want to claim fossil fuel reserves to secure their own national supply?) Peakists, whose focus is on geological or below ground factors (e.g. how much coal, oil or gas can we extract?) Environmentalists, whose focus ranges from local and regional pollution to global Earth system considerations (e.g. how much CO2 can the atmosphere, oceans and land vegetation absorb, and at what risk?);Each of these three perspectives are outlined below. To some extent they represent extremes or simplifications of more subtle views on the future, as discussed in the summary that follows.;There is a widely held view that there is, and will continue to be, a very large unmet demand for the supply of commercial energy throughout the course of this century. For example, about 1.4 billion people have no access to electricity and over 2.5 billion await clean cooking technologies. In terms of future potential unmet demand, another 2 billion people are forecast by the UN to join the worlds population by 2050. By this time average world incomes (i.e. GDP) are expected by mainstream economic forecasters to have risen around fourfold with a consequent increase in rates of material consumption (IEA, 2010a). This growthist view of the future is championed, for example, by the International Energy Agency. Growthists assume a strong relationship between economic growth and energy consumption (though not necessarily energyrelated emissions).