C 0  c.. E ,  C 0 u 8 ;C 0  c.. E ,  C 0 u 8 o;In the real world of economics and politics, a long term annual GDP growth rate of 2 is considered a relatively modest ambition, yet this would double the overall GDP of a nation within 35 years (Table 1.2). As shown in Figure 1.13, between 1981 and 2008 Chinese GDP grew by a factor of nearly 12, an average rate of 9 per year or a doubling time of just under 8 years.;This increase in GDP has been accompanied by a growth in energy demand, particularly for Chinas indigenous coal. The growth in coal production (Figure 1.14), although obviously not a simple exponential rise, represents overall an average;Figure 1.13 Chinese GDP growth 19812008 is almost exponential (source IEA. 20 I Ob);Figure 1.13 Chinese GDP growth 19812008 is almost exponential (source IEA. 20 I Ob)increase of approximately 5.6 per annum, doubling every 12.5 years.;Chinese coal production already accounts for nearly a half of the worlds total. A further doubling (in another 12.5 years) would mean that Chinese coal reserves would be being depleted at an alarming rate. It would also rP.rp1irP. rn P.xtranrrlinary invP.stment in new coal mines  and would result in a dramatic increase in global CO2 emissions. (For further discussion of China and coal see Chapters 2 and 5.);It should be obvious from the analysis above that eventually there are likely to be resource limits to growth. This thinking has led some commentators to question the validity of assumptions of steady percentage growth and indeed to question the very idea of longterm sustainable growth (see Jackson, 2009).;Figure 1.14 Chinese coal production, 1981 2009 (sourcesAden, 20 IO BP.2010);There is much uncertainty over when oil, natural gas and eventually coal production will peak as supplies are depleted. The notion that the world is nearing a peak in oil supplies (in the first instance) is a subject of great current interest and debate. In contrast to the growthists, there is an alternative peakist (after peak oil) view that through resource constraints, higher prices and technical change, future energy demand may not be as high as the growthists predict. Peakists are concerned that although the world has large resources of fossil fuel, its reserves (i.e. the portion that is economic to extract) are limited. Even more important, the production of many sources is rate limited by the availability of financial investment, water or even other fuels needed for extraction. As a result supplies of oil, natural gas and even coal may be insufficient to meet the worlds current level energy demand. For a review of studies of peak oil see Sorrell et al., 2009).;Though the world has relatively large stocks of proven coal reserves, some analysts question how long these will last at projected consumption rates. Global reserves of uranium  used in civil nuclear power  are also uncertain but limited. For peakists, we live at a time of increasing concern about peak oil, peak gas and even peak coal and at a turning point in our use of fossil fuels (see Figure 1.15).;Figure 1.1 S A typical peakist scenario of future fossil fuel supplies (sources BP, 20 IO EWG, 2007 Campbell et al., 2009);Since the fossil fuels were created in specific circumstances where the geological conditions were favourable, the largest deposits of oil, gas ad coal tend to be concentrated in particular regions of the globe (see Figure 1.16). although less appreciable deposits are remarkably widespread. Over a half of the worlds conventional oil reserves are located in the Middle East. As for natural gas. over 40 of the worlds conventional reserves