The term sustainability entered into common usage relatively recently, following the publication of the report Our Common Future by the United Nations Brundtland Commission in 1987. The Commission defined sustainability, and in particular sustainable development, as Development that meets the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. (United Nations, 1987).;These are related to the three dimensions of sustainable development (Box 1.3). Sustainability is, of course, a very broad ideal. Some forms of renewable energy such as wind, solar thermal and solar photovoltaic systems come close to fulfilling the three requirements described above. It is argued that fossil fuel systems could be made more sustainable in the future through technological innovations  for example, by the use of carbon capture and storage (CCS), described in Chapter 14. Nuclear power could be made more sustainable through the development of deeplevel storage for nuclear waste (see Chapter 11).;Sustainability is therefore in practice a relative rather than an absolute concept. It is not so much that some energy sources are sustainable and others not it is more that some energy sources, in certain contexts, are more sustainable than others. Determining the relative sustainability of one energy system visavis another is usually a complex process, involving detailed consideration of the specific processes and technologies proposed, the context in which they are being used, and the differing values and interests of the various parties involved.;Ideally, in view of the Brundtland Reports injunction that humanity should not compromise the needs of future generations, we should judge the sustainability of all energy systems on an indefinite time scale  far into the distant future. In practice, however, this might be realistically interpreted as endeavouring to ensure that energy systems become sustainable (or at the very least, much less unsustainable) over the next century or so.;The longterm ecological and climatic consequences of our present fossil fueldominated energy systems cannot be accurately predicted, but a precautionary approach would suggest that we should be pursuing a strategy of decarbonization and increasing energy efficiency (see Section 1.6).;The concept of sustainable development is frequently unpacked into three dimensions or pillars (IEA, 2001 citing OECD, 2001) Economic sustainability encompasses the requirements for strong and durable economic growth, such as preserving financial stability and a low and stable inflationary environment (i.e. low financial inflation see Chapter 12) Environmental sustainability  focuses on the stability of biological and physical systems and on preserving access to a healthy natural environment Social sustainability  emphasizes the importance of well functioning labour markets and high employment, of adaptability to major demographic changes and stability in social and cultural systems, of equity and democratic participation in decision making.;Sustainable development emphasizes the links among these three dimensions, their complementarities, and the need for balancing them when conflicts between them arise. A key question is the extent to which all three dimensions can be pursued within an overall framework of economic, environmental and social policies. Given a choice, policymakers will always support those decisions and investments that offer winwinwin (all three dimensions) or winwin (two out of three dimensions) opportunities. Proponents of government support for the new renewables technologies, for example, point to the triple wins that investment in a new energy sector will deliver. Frequently, however, progress in one of the dimensions of sustainable development implies losses in another. A classic example is reducing energy taxes  this lowers the price of energy, which for example helps poorer people (and is therefore socially good), but may increase overall consumption (and is therefore environmentally bad).;Those who argue in favour of accepting the tradeoffs between objectives in competing dimensions of sustainability are said to be in favour of weak sustainability. If the gain in one dimension more than offsets the loss in another, then sustainability can be said to have been enhanced  in a weak sense. Those who argue that there may be circumstances where tradeoffs are not acceptable are said to be in favour of strong sustainability. Rejecting any policies that allow the Earths temperature to rise by more than a given amount, say 2 C, is an example of the strong sustainability approach.;In practice the framework of policies that shapes energy systems and sustainability is underpinned by elements of both weak and strong sustainability. Charging polluters and giving them a choice to change behaviour or technologies is an extremely common weak element. Global caps on emissions of greenhouse gases from groups of countries is an example of a strong element.