A new extension of IEA Wind Task 30 named the Offshore Code Comparison Collaboration, Continued, with Correlation and unCertainty (OC6) was initiated in 2019. The goal of OC6 is to validate engineeringlevel offshore wind modelling tools that consider the simultaneous loading from wind and waves, as well as the interaction with the structural dynamics of the system and its control algorithms (aerohydro servoelastic tools). In addition, the OC6 project includes higherfidelity models (such as computational fluid dynamics modelsCFD) to better understand the underlying physics. A threeway validation is performed where both the engineeringlevel modelling tools and higherfidelity tools are compared to measurement data. The results will be used to help inform the improvement of engineeringlevel models, andor guide the development of future test campaigns.;In 2020, Phase I of the project was completed, which focused on validating the ability of modelling tools to accurately predict the nonlinear hydrodynamic loading and response of floating wind systems at their surge and pitch natural frequencies. Participants built models representing two experimental campaigns performed at the MARIN wave basin to assess the hydrodynamic loading on a floating semisubmersible design studied in the previous OC5 project. Participants included research institutions, testing facility owners, certification agencies, technology developers (turbine and support structure), and software tools developers.;Also in 2020, Phase II of the project was initiated. Phase II focuses on integrating in a new, higherfidelity modelling capability for representing the interaction between the soil and the piles for fixedbottom offshore wind systems.;urrent wind energy models often lead to overprediction of wind plant performance, leading to high uncertainties and significantfinancial losses in the wind industry. State oftheart wind resource assessment and wind farm design techniques employ four main topics characterization of largescale climatology mesoscale meteorological processes microscale terrain, vegetation, and wind farm array effects and wind turbine aerodynamics.;Current wind energy models often lead to overprediction of wind plant performance, leading to high uncertainties and significant financial losses in the wind industry. State oftheart wind resource assessment and wind farm design techniques employ four main topics characterization of largescale climatology mesoscale meteorological processes microscale terrain, vegetation, and wind farm array effects and wind turbine aerodynamics.;The third phase of Task 31 has gathered more than 80 organizations from ten IEAWind countries in a mission to establish an international model evaluation framework for wind farm flow models. This phase has launched seven benchmarks addressing wind conditions in offshore, forested, and complex terrain using data from the New European Wind Atlas (NEWA) project and two benchmarks addressing wake effects from the A2eSWiFT single wake experiment and array efficiency from five offshore wind farms from the Offshore Wind Accelerator (OWA) Wake Modeling Challenge. These benchmarks are progressively incorporated to the Wind Energy Model Evaluation Protocol (WEMEP), an opensource documentation project for the Wakebench model evaluation framework. With respect to previous phases (e.g. SWiFT vs Sexbierum singlewake case), we are noticing more consistent results and lower spread due to higher quality experimental data and more robust evaluation methods. Industry involvement has also improved with two industryled benchmarks the OWA challenge on array efficiency prediction for 5 offshore wind farms and the Alaiz numerical site calibration case in complex terrain in support to the IEC 6140012 4 working group. The Wakebench framework is now following the AWAKEN experiment, a large campaign led by NREL and open for international collaboration which will run until 2024. This experiment is discussed within a followup new IEA Task that will focus on wideindustry adoption of the framework.