Wind energy RDD funding increased slightly in 2020 at both the country level and globally. Of the 15 countries reporting RDD budgets in 2020, five reported an increase from 2019 (US, Japan, Korea, Canada, and Switzerland). The US is by far the largest investor in wind energy RDD with 104 million USD followed by Germany with 76.9 million USD and Japan with 76.5 million USD. Horizon 2020the EU Research and Innovation Programme 2014 to 2020is coming to an end with 69.7 million USD allocated in 2020 to wind energyrelated research. Public RDD funding varies from year to year for a number of reasons, and quantifying the budget share allocated to wind energy is difficult because research topics can be crosscutting.;It should be noted that renewable energy RDD constitutes only 15, or 3.4 billion USD (3.8 billion EUR), of the global public energy RDD expenditures of 22.5 billion USD (25.2 billion EUR). In comparison, nuclear energy constitutes 21 and fossil fuels 7 of total expenditures. National budgets for wind RDD from 20102020 are shown in Appendix Table 11.;In 2020, the U.S. Department of Energys Wind Energy Technologies Office (WETO) prioritized its 104 million USD (85.07 million EUR) within four categories Offshore wind technology demonstration and resource characterization next generation landbased wind distributed wind energy resource design and planning tools, components, and hybrid systems and systems integration including cybersecurity, resilience, and advanced control.;In Europe, the majority of RDD takes place at the national level, but a variety of coordination mechanisms aim at aligning activities across EU Member States. Most important is the Strategic Energy Technology (SET) Plan, which is the European Commissions effort to support Member States, industry, and the research community in cooperating and better aligning their RDD priorities and funding. Some countries like for example Portugal relies exclusively on EU funding for wind energy RDD.;Horizon 2020the EU Research and Innovation Programme 2014 to 2020continued to fund a substantial number of wind energy projects (13) with a cumulative investment of 57 million EUR (69.7 million USD). Half of this EU funding was granted to floating offshore technologies, followed by new materials  components 24) and offshore wind technology (14).;Member countries highlighted key topics driving ongoing and future RDD activities, many of which identified as national priorities. The highlights of national and cooperative projects below show the variety in RDD priorities. The priorities are grouped according to the four IEA Wind strategic areas; The German XWakes project focuses on the assessment of the change of wind conditions for the operation of offshore wind farm clusters under largescale offshore wind farm installation. Extensive measurements with airborne vehicles, satellites and LiDAR at various offshore locations within the German Bight. The findings on interactions of wind farm clusters, which will be investigated with large eddy simulations (LES) in addition to the measurements, will be implemented in industry as well as a in a mesoscale weather prediction model.;National RDD efforts throughout member countries continue to build expertise and accelerate technology innovation as a means to drive down the cost and create value of wind energy. Moreover, efforts are also addressing nontechnical aspects such as public acceptance.