1) PINE TREE WIND AND SOLAR FARM TOUR. NREL IMAGE GALLERY 50692. PHOTO CREDIT DENNIS SCHROEDER, NREL;Social acceptance continues to be a key constraint for the development of wind energy projects. In the face of the intensifying and dynamic challenges in most parts of the world, there will continue to be added value in Task 28 and learning how researchers around the globe identify challenges and apply solutions at local, regional, and countrywide levels.;Social and community acceptance continues to be a key constraint for the development of wind energy projects around the world. In the face of the intensifying and dynamic challenge of the acceptance of wind energy, there is and will continue to be added value in Task 28 and learning how researchers define challenges and apply solutions at local, regional, and countrywide levels. Task 28 facilitates international cooperation that advances global understanding of the social science and community level effects of landbased and offshore wind energy development. The international collaboration creates shared knowledge of ongoing research, lessons, and best practices to assist host communities, governments, industry, and other stakeholders with the deployment processes for windgenerated electricity projects.;In 2020, Task 28 published several fact sheets on common social acceptance issues such as annoyance from noise. These can be used by communities, developers, and local government planners to gain quick information about topics with examples from around the world. Members also published in academic journals on topics popular this year, such as community ownership and energy justice 5.;Task 28 held two virtual meetings and initiated a 4year extension to operate through May 2024. The wind industry is part of Task 28 in every member country. For example, developers in Denmark worked with Task 28 members to present Wind Farm Developers a Typology of Acceptability at the 11th International Sustainability Transitions conference 6.;The main aim of IEA Task 29 was to validate, improve, and develop aerodynamic models for wind turbine design codes. More specifically, the task focused on validating and improving models for the following aspects aerodynamic response to turbulent inflow sheared inflow 2D3D aerodynamics aeroelastic effects and transition characteristics in realistic flow conditions. The model assessment was largely, but not exclusively, based on the detailed aerodynamic measurements taken on an NM80 2MW turbine from the Danish DanAero field experiment. This DanAero experiment was carried out by Danish consortium from Technical University of Denmark (DTU) with LM Glasfiber, Siemens Wind Power Vestas Wind Systems AS, and the utility company DONG Energy.;Task 29 was finished in December 2020, and the results are described in a final report. The main deliverable is a database of DanAero experimental data which has been made available to the aerodynamic research society. The DanAero experimental data meets a longheld demand for validation of aerodynamic design models. Several analyses were carried out on these measurements, and a comparison is made between the detailed aerodynamic measurements and results from various calculational codes of different degrees of confidentiality, varying from industrial efficient BEM model to high fidelity CFD codes with intermediate models in between.