Task 11 has been part of the IEA Wind TCP since 1978 and nearly every member country participates. It allows members to react quickly to new technical and scientific developments and information needs.;Task 11 of the IEA Wind Technology Collaboration Programme (TCP) promotes and disseminates knowledge on emerging wind energy topics. This is accomplished through Topical Expert Meetings (TEMs), in which invited experts meet to exchange information on RD topics of common interest to the IEA Wind TCP members.;Task 11 of the IEA Wind Technology Collaboration Programme (TCP) promotes and disseminates knowledge on emerging wind energy topics by international cooperative activities. This is accomplished through Topical Expert Meetings (TEMs), in which active researchers, industry, and government experts meet to exchange information on RD topics of common interest to the IEA Wind TCP members. Five TEMs were organised in 2020, with the last four taking place online TEM98 on Erosion of Wind Turbine Blades in Roskilde, Denmark TEM99 on Floating Offshore Wind Arrays TEM100 on Aviation System Cohabitation, TEM101 on Hybrid Power Plants and TEM102 on Airborne Wind Energy. Following the success of the TEMs, two new Research Task proposals have been submitted to the ExCo in 2020. When considered useful, a factsheet is prepared with the main results of a TEM. Task 11 also disseminates knowledge by developing IEA Wind TCP Recommended Practices in collaboration with other Tasks and the Secretary. Many IEA Wind Recommended Practices have served as basis for both national and international standards. A Leadership Team Summit was organized in 2020 for the first time, to increase the dynamics of the TCP Wind, to accelerate the procedures for task approval, and discuss the interaction with other IEA TCPs. Task 11 reports and activities bring the latest knowledge to wind energy experts in the member countries, offer recommendations for the future work of the TCP and work as a catalyst for starting new IEA Wind TCP Research Tasks. Nearly all IEA Wind TCP countries participate in this Task, which has been active since 1978.;The mission of Task 19 is to enable largescale deployment of cold climate wind power in a safe and economically feasible manner. The plan for the current term can be divided into three categories Deployment of wind energy in cold climates, safety, and acceptance, and moving towards certification practices for cold climate solutions.;The goals of the term are represented by a diverse set of deliverables planned for the term. Focus of the work within the Task is developing guidelines and recommendations for the industry, with the longterm goal of pushing for further standardization of cold climate related technologies.;Roughly 20 of onshore wind has been installed in areas where atmospheric icing conditions or low operating temperatures affect the operation of the wind turbines. IEA wind TCP Task 19 was created to address the issues that arise from operating wind farms in cold climate and icing conditions.;Roughly 20 of onshore wind has been installed in areas where atmospheric icing conditions or low operating temperatures affect the operation of the wind turbines. IEA wind TCP Task 19 Wind Energy in Cold Climates was created to address the issues that arise from operating wind farms in cold climate and icing conditions. The mission of Task 19 is to enable largescale deployment of cold climate wind power in a safe and economically feasible manner. The plan for the current term can be divided into three categories Deployment of wind energy in cold climates, safety, and acceptance, and moving towards certification practices for cold climate solutions.;The goals of the term are represented by a diverse set of deliverables planned for the term. Focus of the work within the Task is developing guidelines and recommendations for the industry, with the longterm goal of pushing for further standardization of cold climate related technologies.;As a highlight of the year, Task 19 completed a new recommendation for Performance warranty guidelines for wind turbines in cold climates. The warranty guidelines document was developed in collaboration with a group of industry partners from all different sectors of the wind power industry academic research organizations, consultants, turbine owners, and operators and wind turbine and ice prevention system manufacturers. This group of outside industry participants provided valuable feedback to the work developing these guidelines during the development process.