Wind energy generally has a high public acceptance in the surveys conducted. For example, in 2020, over 80 of the Austrian population supported a further wind power expansiona continuing trend since 2011. In Finland, 80 of respondents chose increase for wind energy in Finnish electricity production. However, in many countries opposition still exists locally for any new wind power plant proposed, even if the general public is supporting wind energy. In Korea, there is low acceptance both for landbased and fixed bottom offshore wind power. The local opposition from many ongoing projects around the country turned the general public acceptance to low level in Norway in 2019. This was also seen in Finland in previous years, but after research on noise concerns did not find any health impacts on people living nearby, the public acceptance figures have improved again.;Belgium and Canada report lengthy legal procedures affecting the deployment, as cases where local communities appealed against the construction of wind energy facilities may take years to resolve. Such legal cases could potentially be avoided by involving the local communities more closely at the project planning stage and by offering them the opportunity to take part in investments through cooperatives.;In Norway, a new white paper on permitting, including compensation to local municipalities, was published in 2020. In Finland, the property tax from wind power plants for small municipalities has received positive publicity. In France, measures improving the consenting process include favouring the implication of local communities and citizen in wind related projects. In Ireland, the new auction mechanism includes measures;In Norway, a new white paper on permitting, including compensation to local municipalities, was published in 2020. In Finland, the property tax from wind power plants for small municipalities has received positive publicity. In France, measures improving the consenting process include favouring the implication of local communities and citizen in wind related projects. In Ireland, the new auction mechanism includes measuressupporting community acceptance of renewable energy projects, including a mandatory 2EURMWh community benefit payment and a reserved auction category for community owned projects. In Korea, the Plan for Offshore Wind Power Generation in Collaboration with Local Residents and the Fishing Industry sets out specific measures to trickledown benefits to local stakeholders.;Some governments have been working to support public acceptance of wind power by funding research on wind power and ornithology, bats, and noise (Finland, Switzerland, the US). In 2020, Canada published a study on bat concerns and measures to minimize, and the US supported the development of several mitigation measures for bat and bird impacts.;Wind energy deployment can be hindered by lengthy permitting procedures and appeal processes. EU (and Belgium, Germany, Greece, and Italy) report that to achieve the new challenging wind energy targets for 2030, a simplification of the authorization procedures is expected. A onestop shop simplifying and speeding up licensing procedures has mitigated the complexity of permitting procedures in Sweden and France, and adopted in Belgium. In the Netherlands, collaboration between authorities overseeing the permitting is required, however, it is still very long process and fitting more than 6 GW onshore wind in the NL seems unfeasible. In Sweden, a roadmap for wind power expansion was published in January 2021, facilitating planning and permit processes with tools and proposals for legal and regulatory measures, as well as setting regional targets and an implementation strategy. In Italy, associations, operators, and policymakers are working together to improve permitting process.;Member countries work together in the context of the IEA to tackle deployment constraints because many countries experience similar growth impediments. In many cases, policy actions can help overcome or even remove these barriers. The main barriers reported in 2020 include long permitting procedures and increasing number of legal disputes and citizens protests.