Within the IEA Wind TCP member countries, 670 GW of operational wind power capacity generated 1,375 TWh in 2020, meeting close to 8 of the electricity demand. 85 of the worlds wind generating capacityand all offshore capacityresides in countries participating in the IEA Wind TCP. These countries added almost 80 GW of capacity in 2020, accounting for more than 87 of worldwide market growth (year 2020 includes India as the new member of IEA Wind TCP).;Governments launched ambitious targets for a low and zerocarbon future, supported by policies and research efforts. Year 2020 continued to see net zero targets announced for 2050 and 2060. These translated to doubling the wind power capacity from current numbers by 2030, even tenfold for offshore. To achieve the new wind energy targets, a simplification of the authorization procedures is expected in several countries in order to reduce the time it takes to obtain permits for new sites.;Auctions for both landbased and offshore capacity secured the wind deployment for the next years. These government efforts were complemented by the private sector announcing investment decisions for new subsidyfree wind power plants through PPAs (Power Purchase Agreements).;Wind energy installations contributed to a growing industry with benefits for the economy, industry revenues, and direct and indirect job creation. The sector is well positioned to deliver for green recovery programmes, boosting the economies after the coronavirus pandemic.;Within the total public energy RDD funding of 22.5 billion USD, renewable energy RDD public funding constituted only 15 of total public energy RDD. This 15 includes wind energy RDD funding, which experienced a smaller increase compared to the year before.;This summary of the Annual Report 2020 presents highlights and trends from 22 countries as well as the European Union and WindEuropefor both deployment and RD activities. Data reported in previous IEA Wind TCP documents (19952019) are included as background for the evolution of trends. The annual report is freely downloadable at https ieawind.org;2020 was a recordbreaking year for wind power. Global wind power installed capacity increased by 93 GW to 770 GW onshore wind power surpassed 700 GW, and offshore wind surpassed 35 GW. The exceptional year showed the resilience of renewableswind power additions were only slightly affected by the global pandemic, and the demand for renewables including wind surged. Policy momentum to reach new targets set for 2030 and beyond are ensuring continued market growth in years to come.