The IEA Wind is a collaborative venture operating under the auspices of the IEA. Formally known as the Implementing Agreement for Cooperation in the Research, Development, and Deployment of Wind Energy Systems.;IEA Wind is comprised of 26 contracting parties from 21 member countries, the Chinese Wind Energy Association (CWEA), the European Commission, and WindEurope (Italy and Norway each have two contracting parties). Since 1977, participants have developed and deployed wind energy technology through vigorous national programmes and international efforts. Participants continue to exchange information on current and future activities at semiannual meetings and participate in cooperative research tasks.;IEA Wind supported 17 Tasks working on wind energy research, development, and deployment (R,DD) in 2020. These cooperative Tasks bring together hundreds of experts from industry, government, and research institutions around the world to exchange information and participate in research activities each year. Through these activities, the IEA Wind member countries leverage national efforts to complete larger and more complex projects than an individual organisation could complete.;The IEA Wind Executive Committee (ExCo) approves and oversees each research Task. New Tasks are added to IEA Wind as Member Countries agree on new cooperative research topics. For each Task, the participating countries jointly develop a work plan, which is reviewed and approved by the full I EA Wind. Often, a participation fee from member countries supports the Operating Agents (OAs) efforts to coordinate the research and report to the ExCo.;Each active task had between four to 18 participating countries working on issues related to wind energy technology and deployment in 2019 (Overview table on next page). The combined efforts devoted to a Task allow a country to leverage its research resources and collaboratively address complex wind research challenges.;Patricia WeisTaylor was Secretary of IEA Wind from 1998 and until 2015. In addition to her many contributions, Patricia published the IEA Wind Annual Reports through her company PWT Communications LLC.