2020 was a year that challenged societys concepts of normality, citizens globally voluntarily engaged with restrictions on their liberties to protect the lives of those most vulnerable to COVID 19. The dramatic effects upon lives and livelihoodseconomies and energy consumptionhuman activity was unprecedented in modern times. The response to the pandemic did, however, demonstrate that, where there is sufficient will, leadership and cooperation, humanity can respond rapidly to a global crisis to avert its worst effects.;The COVID 19 travel restrictions also required IEA Wind to quickly change the manner in which its activities are executed. We had to rapidly move to online meetings for all our core activities including Task meetings, Topical Expert Meetings and Executive Committee meetings.;As a distributed organisation, IEA Wind already uses online meetings for its daytoday business meetings. Moving to online platforms for core activities is not without its challenges. Informal exchanges at the fringes of inperson meetings bring an additional richness to encounters that can be difficult to replicate online. Online meetings, webinars and conferences also have upsides. More delegates and observers can participate and they do not have to incur the time, cost and emissions impact of international travel. Presentation recordings may also be used for research dissemination. In the future, once restrictions relax, IEA Wind will use a mix of online and inperson meetings for its core activities.;Our Task Operating Agents strove to minimise the disruption from COVID 19 to IEA Wind research collaborations. Only one Task suffered a delay, to a single workpackage, because of closure of a research facility. We also continued to develop the IEA Wind work programme to deliver upon our strategy. Four Topical Expert Meetings were hosted online by the Task 11 Operating Agent. Two new Tasks, on Wind Turbine Blade Recycling and Wind Farm Flow Control were initiated in 2020 and proposals were developed for three further new Tasks on Floating Offshore Wind Arrays, Hybrid Power Plants and Airborne Wind Energy. These new Tasks will project our research activities into important new areas.;I would commend the IEA Wind Annual Report to you as a source of information about both existing and new IEA Wind research collaborations and wind energy deployment and research in member countries. I hope that it inspires you to become involved with our collaborations in some manner.