 Winds of the North Sea in 2050 is a Dutch project analysing the interactions between a largescale rollout of wind energy and the atmosphere. Global blockage, farmtofarm interactions, deep array effects, and limits to yields can no longer compensate for wake effects. This project therefore uses various models to develop a wind atlas which incorporates existing and future wind farms.; Finland conducted two studies on forecasting. One study focused on better probabilistic forecasts for weak and moderate winds by utilizing statistical methods and new types of wind observations in the development of weather models. The other study evaluated atmospheric icing forecasts, relevant for wind power, with groundbased ceilometer measurements.; In the British Joule Challenge Phase 1, ORE Catapult and the National Composites Centre reviewed key opportunities for producing wind turbine components using next generation advanced composites technologies. These could facilitate a step change in device capabilities, enabling 20MW generation capacity for fixed foundation floating wind requirements.; As part of the US DOEs efforts to develop advanced materials and processes for wind energy technologies, Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) researched how additive manufacturing and advanced materials could benefit wind turbines as they increase in size and efficiency. Researchers at NREL also demonstrated that using thermoplastic resin to manufacture wind turbine blades could make them more recyclable, lighter, and less expensive.; The Dutch WindSense project aims at developing more slender blades from the root on by integrating optical sensory fibres running from the blade root to the point with the widest chord. These fibres provide insight in the actual loads whereby the minimal required dimensions of the blade can be determined more accurately.; The Austrian N.Ice project uses an ultrashort pulse laser to generate nanostructures in the sub m range on technical surfaces (like rotor blades) in order to avoid or prevent the adhesion of ice. Individual samples will be used in field tests on a small wind turbine and will be exposed together with reference samples to monitor the degree of ice formation and the duration of icing.; Sweden reported that Modvion has developed a modular turbine tower in laminated wood which lowers the cost and simplifies transportation of tall turbine towers (httpswww.modvion.com).; The EU Commission reported that the LEADFLOAT project developed BW Ideols floating offshore concept (floating barge) for new offshore wind markets allowing developing projects farther away from shore and with no restriction on the water depth or on the seabed soil conditions. Since 2018, two demonstrators are operating in France (2 MW Floatgen demonstrator) and Japan (3 MW Hibiki project) (httpswww.bwideol.comen). Further, a precommercial plant is expected to be operational by 2023, following the French government selection of the Eolmed consortium for the development of a 30 MW Mediterranean offshore wind farm (3 wind turbines) 15 km off the coastal town of Gruissan.; The Norwegian Upscale project builds knowledge about the next generation 25MW floating wind turbines and technologies needed to enable them. This includes a realistic 25MW reference semi submersible floating wind turbine, new advanced rotor aerodynamics models and improved load reducing control systems.; The British HOME Offshore is a collaboration between the universities of Manchester, Durham, Warwick, Strathclyde and HeriotWatt, as well as 16 partner companies and research organizations. It explores new modelling, data science, A.I., robotic technologies which derisk offshore wind operations, reduce costs and make better use of existing assets.