he Task is composed of three threads Work Package (WP) 1 is focused on the Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) improvementsnecessary to improve the overall forecasting accuracy. The collaboration of global NWP centres and other weather modelling groups improves the NWP models and gives better access to the input and output data. WP 2 is focused on the weather to wind power conversion step of the forecast process and the calculation of the uncertainty, and to a large extent is;Wind power forecasting is an essential part of the energy transition. High penetration of wind power in the grid is only possible with accurate wind power forecasts for the next minutes, hours and days. IEA Wind Task 36 combines some 250 people from forecast vendors, end users and academia to advance the field, to increase the value of forecasts and to provide advice on streamlining related business processes.;Task 36 Forecasting is the collaborative work of meteorologists, forecast vendors, academia, and end users to investigate and identify significant advances in wind power forecasting and make them more visible to the user community, including to demonstrate the value of forecasts, especially of probabilistic forecasts. The Task had a workshop on the value of forecasting in Glasgow, just before Covid19 hit. An interesting development was the gamification of our education effort to promote probabilistic forecasts. Based on a relatively simple game where users got both deterministic and probabilistic forecasts, users saw that the probabilistic forecasts both gave more confidence in the forecasts and higher results, i.e. better decisions. Additionally, the Task worked on a Technical Report on renewable energy forecasting together with the IEC, standardization of the data transfer and of meteorological instruments for forecast use, an information portal for weather data relevant for wind power forecasts, and the value of improved forecasts in different markets.;To meet these requirements, industry has sought to improve the performance, reliability, and cost of turbine and plant design. However, tradeoffs among competing goals require a more integrated approach (see Figure on complex wind systems). An integrated approach is needed to fully assess how a change or an uncertainty in a design parameter affects;Significant technological innovation has resulted in larger turbines and wind plants with lower costs of energy. However, the increasing importance of wind energys role within the electricity sector also imposes more requirements on the performance, reliability, and cost of the technology.;Over the last few decades, wind energy has evolved into a large international industry involving major players in the manufacturing, construction, and utility sectors. Coinciding with industry growth, significant technology innovation has resulted in larger turbines and wind plants with lower associated costs of energy. However, the increasing importance of wind energys role within the electricity sector imposes more requirements on the technology in terms of performance, reliability, and cost.;In many cases, these goals involve tradeoffs. For example, upfront investment in a robust component design may avoid large downstream costs for component repair and replacement. In another case, the design of a machine with a higher tip speed can reduce required torque and loads through the drivetrainbut at the same time, these higher tip speeds can lead to more aeroacoustic noise that adversely impacts surrounding communities. Trade offs, and technoeconomical conflicts such as these exist throughout the entire system.