Wind energy has achieved impressive milestones in the past few years, with auction prices dropping below 40 EURMWh for landbased projects and recent subsidyfree auctions for offshore wind projects. In 2019, over 60 GW of wind generation capacity was installed worldwide, bringing the global capacity to about 650 GW. Nearly 85 of this global capacity is deployed in IEA Wind member countries.;1. Maximise the value of wind energy in energy systems and markets. Focus R,DD advances and sharing of best practices on the integration of wind power into energy systems and markets to improve the economic, technological, and societal value of wind energy, while enhancing security of supply.;2. Lower the cost of landbased and offshore wind energy. Support innovative research at all scales and for all technology types (including disruptive technologies) to continue to improve the economic performance of wind energy projects in both mature and emerging markets. Address technology, market, and information needs to maximise the potential for wind energy to become the most costcompetitive energy by 2050.;3. Facilitate wind energy deployment through social support and environmental compatibility. Refine communication and technological tools to enhance the social support for, and environmental compatibility of, wind energy projects and to reduce barriers to wind energy deployment. Support sociological and environmental research to inform the sustainable deployment of wind energy in both distributed and utilityscale wind energy systems.;4. Foster collaborative research and the exchange of best practices and data. Support international collaboration among experts in all aspects of wind energy to promote standardisation and accelerate the pace of technology development and deployment. Engage with a global cohort of stakeholder groups and organisations to disseminate IEA Wind outputs.;Energy Security  Wind energy provides a reliable, affordable, and domestic energy source that may add to the diversity of a countrys energy supply and provide grid support. IEA Wind activities directly support energy security by improving the value of wind energy in the energy system, improving its costcompetitiveness, and by addressing wind energy deployment challenges.;Economic Development  Costcompetitive renewable energy is a critical component of the growth of the worlds developed and developing nations. IEA Wind fosters economic development by lowering the cost and increasing the value of wind energy in the system through collaborative RD. This work also enables the most difficult RD challenges to be approached and solved collaboratively.;Environmental Awareness  IEA Wind provides research, analysis, information, and data on technology development and deployment issues, including resource efficiency and environmental externalities. Information generated by the IEA Wind is used by policy makers and regulatory authorities to identify and evaluate the sustainability of energy options.;Engagement Worldwide  The IEA Wind actively engages the energy sector and other experts worldwide through Task research activities and communications (e.g., publications, presentations, and workshops) and outreach activities on TCP level (e.g., collaboration with IEA, IRENA, and others efforts to expand membership in mature and emerging markets).;This 20192024 Strategic Work Plan presents the strategic objectives and priority research areas proposed for the next fiveyear term of the IEA Technology Collaboration Programme on Wind Energy Systems (IEA Wind). For 40 years, the IEA Wind has been multiplying national technology R,DD efforts through information exchange and joint research projects. IEA Wind has 17 active tasks and 24 (...) member countries, including 3 sponsor organsations, with membership expanding.