In 2020, Task 25 published updated fact sheets for integration issuesalso in Japanese. Hourly timeseries of measured data was gathered from the participating countries, to publish as profiles of largescale wind power productioncorrecting for curtailments, if necessary. A summary report for all results in national case studies was compiled, to be published in 2021. Two collaborative journal articles Addressing Technical Challenges in 100 Variable;System impact studies are important for defining targets for wind and other variable renewable energy, and also for defining future decarbonizing pathways. Task 25 is working towards commonly accepted standard methodologies to be applied in system impact studies for wind and solar dominated power and energy systems. International collaboration remains key to learn from both experience and studies in different countries, in the evolving power and energy systems of the future.;System impact studies are important for defining targets for wind and other variable renewable energy, and also for defining future decarbonizing pathways. Task 25 is working towards commonly accepted standard methodologies to be applied in system impact studies for wind and solar dominated power and energy systems. International collaboration remains key to learn from both experience and studies in different countries, in the evolving power and energy systems of the future.;In 2020, Task 25 published updated fact sheets for integration issuesalso in Japanese. Hourly timeseries of measured data was gathered from the participating countries, to publish as profiles of largescale wind power productioncorrecting for curtailments, if necessary. A summary report for all results in national case studies was compiled, to be published in 2021. Two collaborative journal articles Addressing Technical Challenges in 100 Variable InverterBased Renewable Energy Power Systems and System impact studies for near 100 renewable energy systems dominated by inverter based variable generation were published in Wileys WIREs and IEEE TPWRS (open access).;Task 25 brings best practice wind integration experience, study methods, and results to member countries and a wider audience through IEA, IRENA, ESIG, IEEE, and various Task publications. The main industry stakeholders are the system operators, that also follow Task 25 work directly (from Denmark, France, and Italy). The collaboration with IEA PVPS Task 14 in 2018 resulted in a Recommended Practices report including solar integration issues, and is planned to continue in the update process starting in 2021.;ask 26 generates data and insights that inform the potential role for wind power in the future energy system. Specifically, Task 26 seeks to analyze trends in wind power costs, identify opportunities for future cost reduction potential ofwind power technologies and plants, and explore the value that wind power can offer to energy systems. The work of the task considers the full array of landbased and offshore wind power applications but focuses primarily on utility scale technologies and plants. Phase four of the task began in October 2018 and will continue through September 2021. Industry stakeholders regularly collaborate on work products;Wind power serves as a key source of lowcost, clean energy in markets around the world. However, the wind industrys future depends on a sophisticated understanding of cost reduction opportunities, as well as a robust understanding of the means by which society can maximize the value of wind energy in the electricity and energy sectors.;Wind power serves as a key source of lowcost, clean energy in markets around the world. However, the wind industrys future depends on a sophisticated understanding of cost reduction opportunities, as well as a robust understanding of the means by which society can maximize the value of wind energy in the electricity and energy sectors. Task 26s work aims to inform the analysis, policy, and regulatory communities of the current and future cost of wind energy for landbased and offshore wind technologies and the technologys value proposition within an evolving power system. By providing highquality data that support analyses related to cost of wind energy, the Task enhances the broader energy communitys efforts to plan for the future. The Task also develops novel models that are often applied by key stakeholder groups and industry. Organizations such as IEA and the International Renewable Energy Agency have used Task 26 wind project cost and performance statistics and participants regularly use these data for internal and external purposes.