hats where remote sensing of the wind using laserswind lidarcomes in. With wind lidar, we can measure wind conditionsseveral kilometres away, allowing us to replace cup anemometres in existing applications, but also enabling new approaches to operating wind turbines.;As wind turbines get larger, go offshore, and contribute ever more to our electricity supply, we need more information about the wind. Conventional anemometrycup anemometres mounted on masts or turbinessimply cannot provide the level of detail that is needed to measure wind resources at 200 m or higher, monitor wakes, or make control decisions.;Wind lidar helps the wind energy industry get crucial information about wind resources on land and offshore, and helps in the efficient and reliable operation of wind plants. IEA Wind Task 32 works to identify and mitigate the barriers to the adoption of wind lidar for wind energy applications by bringing together the community of wind lidar vendors, researchers, and endusers. During 2020 we continued to support the introduction of wind lidar into new areas, including in complex terrain and in cold climates, and by publishing the results of a 2019 workshop on optimizing wind turbines to take advantage of wind lidar. We also explored the implications of digitalisation on wind lidar and the wind energy industry, held monthly public webinars about wind lidar research and development themes, and published several white papers. These and more can be found on our web site. Tasl 32 collaborates extensively with other IEA Wind Tasks including Task 19 (Cold Climates), Task 37 (Systems Engineering), Task 43 (Digitalisation) and Task 44 (Flow control). We also work closely with industry bodies including CFARS and IEC TC88. Our virtual events were attended by many different stakeholders, with around 65 industry participation. Despite our success, wind lidar has still only reached a few percent of the total market. Task 32 will reach the end of its current phase at the end of 2021. We plan to apply for a new Task to support the largescale deployment of wind lidar from 2022.;n response to these ongoing concerns, the International Energy Agency (IEA) Wind Technology Collaboration Programme (TCP) initiated Task 34 or Working Together to Resolve Environmental Effectsof Wind Energy (WREN) in October 2012. WREN serves as an international forum providing relevant, scientific data for government agencies, private industry, conservation organizations, and academia to inform siting and operational decisions. To help accomplish this, WREN conducts engagement and outreach activities to key stakeholder groups and develops stateofthescience materials, including webinars,;Task 34 or Working Together to Resolve Environmental Effects of Wind Energy (WREN) facilitates international cooperation that advances global understanding of the environmental effects of landbased and offshore wind energy development and creates a shared knowledge base of recommended practices for monitoring and mitigation that meet both conservation and windgenerated electricity objectives. Reducing the impact of wind energy development on wildlife requires scientifically robust, costeffective solutions to inform sound wind siting, construction, operations, and decommissioning decisions. The global nature of the wind energy industry, combined with the understanding that many affected species cross jurisdictional boundaries, highlights the need to collaborate internationally.;In 2020, WREN published a journal article entitled Enabling Renewable Energy While Protecting Wildlife An Ecological RiskBased Approach to Wind Energy Development Using EcosystemBased Management Values and hosted a webinar called Experiences from conducting environmental research at landbased and offshore wind energy facilities. WREN continued to manage the Tethys knowledge base (httpstethys. pnnl.gov), which serves as a collaborative outreach and engagement platform to disseminate the latest research. WREN held two virtual member meetings and initiated a 4year extension to operate through 30 September 2024.