CAPTION THIS 850KW VESTAS V52 IS ON THE CAMPUS OF THE DUNDALK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. TASK 41 RESEARCHERS HAVE USED ITS OPERATIONAL DATA FOR COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS. PHOTO CREDIT RAYMOND BYRNE, DUNDALK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY;Task 41 was initiated in January 2019 to advance wind technology as a costeffective and reliable distributed energy resource. While largescale wind project costs have decreased over time, distributed wind costs have not. Furthermore, great potential exists, worldwide, for expanded distributed energy resource markets, particularly as grids evolve and the need for clean, lowcost energy increases.;IEA Wind Task 41 is an international group of researchers from eleven member countries and associations dedicated to advancing wind technology as a costeffective and reliable distributed energy resource. Our objectives are to coordinate international distributed wind energy research, facilitate collaboration on priority research topics, and increase the visibility of wind technology as a distributed energy resource to lower its costs and deployment barriers.;One highlight from 2020 is that Task 41 initiated a University Research Collaboration project to expand distributed wind research and engage with the next generation of distributed wind researchers. The research topics focus on identifying opportunities to both downscale innovations from large wind turbine design and refine small wind turbine design, with a goal of reducing the costs of distributed wind turbines.;he objectives of this Task are to coordinate international research activities towards the assessment of the remaining operational life of wind turbines nearing the end of their certified design life and identification of strategies for extending theend of useful life. This will be done through research activities for determining the probability of failure of different wind turbine components upon continued operation, examination of procedures that demonstrate the feasibility for life extension, the requirements for maintenance and to recommend findings to international standards and regulatory bodies. The decision on lifetime extension is to be taken based on technical, legal, and economic aspects.;The objectives of the IEAWIND Task 42 on Lifetime Extension Assessment include  Benchmark methods for assessment of the reliability level of primary structures under relevant limit states  The results of the Task should be utilizable in the development of standards for lifetime extension and by national bodies putting in place regulations on lifetime extension.  Develop methods to detect damage and discuss how to categorize damages based on established knowledge  Report on the management of data and its usefulness for life extension.  Application to predictive maintenance and repairs  Policy and state of the art on regulatory approaches and public perception may be included.;The Task initiated in September 2019. In the last year, a series of online meetings were held with all partners to commence the activity on benchmarking remaining life estimation methods using the data from the Alpha Ventus offshore wind farm in Germany. The prediction of remaining life using methods from the partners for the tower and the blades was made using measured loads and metocean conditions. Partners also made such benchmarking with other available wind farm or wind turbine measurement data. The methods included extrapolation of predicted damage equivalent loads (DEL) using several algorithms to predict DELs in the future and building load forecasting models using 10minute measurement data statistics. Economic analysis on the potential profitability of life extension was also made with specific wind farm cost analysis.