he goal of IEA Wind TCP Task 39 is to accelerate the development and deployment of quiet wind turbine technology and consolidate understanding of wind turbine sound emission, propagation, and ultimately its perception by residentsin term of annoyance, but also acceptance. The Task will convene an international expert panel to identify best practices in the prediction, measurement, and assessment of noise, as well as investigate regulatory aspects.;Societal acceptance of new technologies is key to their successful adoption. In some jurisdictions, there is concern about the potential impact of wind turbine noise.;Wind turbine noise is recognized as a key factor for social acceptance of wind energy. The goal of IEA Wind TCP Task 39 is to accelerate the development and deployment of quiet wind turbine technology and consolidate understanding of wind turbine sound emission, propagation, and ultimately, its perception by residents as well as their attitude toward noise. The approach is twofold. On one hand, technical experts are convened to investigate various aspects of modelling, measurement, assessment techniques, as well as regulatory aspects, in the field of wind turbine noise to improve our general understanding of these various interacting factors. On the other hand, the best available information on quiet wind turbine technologies should be made available to all stakeholders, from decision makers and regulators to developers. Wind turbine noise experts from the largest wind turbine manufacturing and consultancy companies and from the academic world, originating from a large variety of countries, have been active in the Task endeavor to reach these goals. The main activities have been concentrated on two benchmark exercises one concerning wind turbine noise simulation codes, the second concerning measurement of airfoil serration noise with subsequent benchmarking of corresponding noise models. Furthermore, a series of documents, including fact sheets on specific topics, are being drafted and should provide valuable and upto date technical information in an easily accessible format to a larger audience.;The initial phase of the Task 39 has ended in 2020, and a new work programme for the second phase of the Task is being established. During this second phase, there will be an increased focus on the psychology of noise and how it is perceived by residents, including external factors not related to noise.;owever, downwind turbines had not succeeded in the market for decades due to technical problems, as fatigue and lack of experiences, progresses in design standards, anddesign and analysis methods have contributed to the development of downwind turbines in recent years. Following the trend toward larger offshore wind turbines, downwind turbines drew the interests again, and some demonstration projects were launched. Modern design and analysis methods of downwind turbines can be verified using the accumulated data to evaluate their benefits and problems nowadays.;Following the trend toward larger and floating offshore wind turbines, downwind turbines drew the interests ofsomething missing here. Modern designanalysis methods and accumulated data can solve the problems and promote the benefits of downwind turbines. IEA Wind TCP Task 40 was conducted for modelling and perspectives of downwind turbine technologies between March 2018 and February 2021. Outcomes of Task 40 are shown below.;WP1 conducts model development and verification. A 2 MW baseline turbine aeroelastic model was developed to evaluate the models and analyses in other subWPs. Fundamental research was conducted to reveal the rotortower aerodynamic interaction (i.e., tower shadow effect), which is one of the technical problems of downwind turbines. Three models were developed for the bladeelement and momentum method and one another model for the system engineering. Tank test and CFD were conducted to verify the rotornacelle interaction model, and a model was developed for the BEM. Design conditions for passive yaw idling in a storm, which is promising advantage of downwind turbines, were proposed through analysis and the field measurement.;WP2 conducts design and LCOE assessment. Aeroelastic and optimization models were developed for 10 MW turbines and showed downwind rotor was shown to be promising through the system engineering approach to reduce the mass of the blades and the nacelle, as well as the LCOE for a larger rotor in higher extreme wind speed conditions.