Grid access and adequacy of transmission infrastructure Grid connection opportunities are crucial to enable development of both landbased and offshore wind sectors to meet 2030 targets. Sweden and the US report concerns of inadequate transmission becoming a limit in the future if no reinforcements made. In Greece, the grid is being strengthened, also for islands like Crete to connect to main grid. The Green Island Agios Efstratios project is used to demonstrate how power systems will be operated in future with wind, solar PV, and batteries.;Permits for grid access may need to be revised, to make sure that permit holders actually build the project. In the beginning of 2020, Spain had a backlog of more than 430 GW worth of requests for grid access, but at the same time, around 60 of grid access holders have not applied for a corresponding connection permit. In 2020, a new law sets deadlines for each milestone in the permitting chain that project developers have to meet to get the next permit. Failing that, any granted permits will expire automatically and deposited financial guarantees will be lost. Developers have five years to complete the whole process. Another law adapting the grid connection with EU requirements adds to the pressure for obtaining permits in the different Autonomous Communities, where there has been a lack of administration to manage a large number of requests and claims over time.;The EU offshore strategy targets mean grid upgrades, both onshore and offshore. Also, developments such as offshore hybrids, energy islands, offshore renewable hydrogen production, and multi terminal HVDC systems are seen, which will require adjustments to EU legislation, notably on market design. In the UK, grid integration for the targeted 40 GW offshore wind is critical and there are also plans for green hydrogen. In Germany published a national hydrogen strategy in 2020, noting that green hydrogen will play a key role in enhancing and completing the energy transition by being an energy storage medium or enabling sector coupling.;Despite cost reduction achievements, future market uncertainty in terms of demand and availability of financing may impact the deployment of wind power. The ambitious targets for 2030 and beyond also require new regulatory frameworks. Longterm visibility and stable regulatory frameworks will continue to be crucial for wind energy deployment. Gaps in regulatory programmes and regulatory changes have;Despite cost reduction achievements, future market uncertainty in terms of demand and availability of financing may impact the deployment of wind power. The ambitious targets for 2030 and beyond also require new regulatory frameworks. Longterm visibility and stable regulatory frameworks will continue to be crucial for wind energy deployment. Gaps in regulatory programmes and regulatory changes havebeen mentioned as reasons for growth rates lower than expected in some countries, like Germany and Ireland. In the UK pandemic and Brexit have created an uncertain investment environment.;In Norway, the excellent deployment rates are already foreseen to stop after 2022 as no new licenses have been issuedthis will impact deployment to 2027. In Sweden, a decision to remove grid connection cost from projects to compensate for offshore costs being higher than onshore is still under discussion.;In 2020, some positive developments took place. In UK, landbased wind was added back to auctions and in Greece, the ban on offshore was lifted. Austria had a gap year of installations while waiting for new legislation in 2021 this is expected to get the project queue funded.;In Sweden, government action to regulate the green certificate allocations took place to tackle price erosion of green certificates. In Norway, the low green certificate income has resulted in the transition towards subsidy free wind energy, acting in electricity markets when current subsidy scheme will end in 2021.;The Netherlands future energy generation will be subsidised based on their CO2 reductions. This is a major shift in the subsidy framework.;Permitting hurdles can affect the design of tendering processes. With a lower number of permitted projects and an increased uncertainty due to court appeals, the number of projects that are able to compete in an auction can be significantly reduced, leading to undersubscribed auctions, and ceiling values because of the lack of competition. In Germany, the first six out of the seven onshore wind auctions held in 2020 were undersubscribed. Only 2.7 GW out of the 3.9 GW on offer were awarded because there were not enough projects permitted.;The role of governments is more important than ever after COVID19. They can ensure policy certainty, keep ambitious targets and improve investor confidence in order to accelerate growth beyond 2021.