10 H. Polatidis and J.B. Morales;3.4.4.3. Land use access roads, transmission lines, and foundations. The criterion Land use is evaluated taking as reference the values from the current proposal (Scenario 3). In the developers report, the total land used is calculated as follows (SSE Renewables Nant yMoch Nontechnical Summary 2012); Construction and siting of wind turbines 80 ha.  Permanent development infrastructure 55 ha.  Temporary works areaFelling 271 ha.  Area to remain clear to enable access 84 ha.;Taking those values as reference, the area used in variant scenarios 2 and 4 is assessed pro portionally by number of turbines. For Scenario 1, the linear approximation is done by installed capacity as the type of wind turbines is substantially smaller. Overall land use is calculated as an addition of the four abovementioned subareas.;3.4.5.1. Visual impact. A comparative visual impact index is calculated as a breakdown of the following subcriteria (a) number of wind turbines, (b) total turbine height, and (c) wind farm land coverage. The visual impact is qualitatively assessed on a 110 scale. The overall impact index is obtained as a weighted average of the three subcriteria with equal weights. The number of wind turbines (a) and the total turbine height (b) are assessed straightforward, whereas the wind farm land coverage (c) is estimated by assuming that, in average, each turbine will need an area of 7  5 rotor diameter.;3.4.5.2. Local employment creation. The creation of local employment is assessed taking as reference the values from the current proposal (Scenario 3) found in the SSE Renewables Nant yMoch Nontechnical Summary (2012). In particular, the number of personyears assumed is 200 for the construction phase, 400 for the operational life of the project and 135 for the decommissioning phase, resulting in a total number of 735 personyears. The number of personyears for the rest of the scenarios is proportionally assessed based on the number of wind turbines. Although the operational life is set for all alternatives to 20 years, the time considered for the construction and decommissioning phases is accordingly altered, as different (larger or smaller) wind turbines would have different constructiondecommissioning times. So for these two phases a reduction factor of 15 was used for Scenario 1 and an escalation factor of 15 was used for Scenario 4.;3.4.5.3. Public acceptance. A qualitative comparative public acceptance index, with a scale of 110, is assessed as a weighted summation of the following subcriteria, with the subweights in brackets.; Visual impact 0.2.  Public participation in the funding of the project 0.15.  Local employment creation 0.15.  Wind development background and social awareness 0.35.  Community benefit package 0.15.