2 H. Polatidis and J.B. Morales;2 H. Polatidis and J.B. Moralesconditions, expressed interest from investorsdevelopers, absence of strict planning restrictions, etc.) there seems in reality that less actual (societal) potential occurs. So there exists a type of gap between theoretical and actual possibilities. It is therefore mandatory to have the necessary tools in order to address problems that emerge from the above issue. This type of planning tools could embrace multicriteria decision aid (MCDA) methods that have an extended history in (renewable) energy planning and decisionmaking (Lahdelma, Hokkanen, and Salminen 2000 Afgan, Carvalho, and Jovanovic 2007 Tegou, Polatidis, and Haralambopoulos 2010 Stein 2013). MCDA techniques perform an integrated comparative evaluation of development projects taking into account simultaneously a number of dissimilar (energy, economic, environmental, societal, technological, etc.) criteria and incorporating at the same time the preferences of a diverse audience of decisionmakers that have different point of views. A number of families of MCDA methods have been developed PROMETHEE, ELEC TRE, AHP and SMAA are some examples (Brans and Vincke 1985 Roy, Present, and Silhol 1986 Saaty 1987 Lahdelma, Hokkanen, and Salminen 1998). The PROMETHEE methods in particular are among the most known and widely applied outranking methods in group energy planning and decision analysis (Pohekar and Ramachandran 2004 Behzadian et al. 2010 Kylili et al. 2014), and especially suitable for renewable energy developments where environmental and societal criteria are evaluated alongside technological and economic criteria. As a result, MCDA methods could facilitate an investigation of the attributes that determine the actual appli cability of wind power projects and the subsequent decomposition of the necessary stages for their successful implementation and will allow for a better engagement of the respective public participation phases. By those means the distance between a proposed project and the tangible project that could be implemented could be minimised. This paper develops an integrated methodological framework for increasing the actual appli cability of wind power projects. The framework is based on MCDA techniques that will perform an overall technical and societal evaluation of a number of potential projects that are a varia tion of an actual preexisting proposal that faces implementation difficulties. These variants are created by changing several key attributes of the original proposal, such as the number of wind turbines proposed, the type andor height of turbines (this will affect their visual impact, the land needed, etc.), their particular configuration at site and the overall installed capacity of the project. A number of evaluation criteria are established and assessed via particular related soft ware or are comparatively evaluated among each other. The preference of a diverse audience of pertinent stakeholders can also be incorporated in the overall analysis. The outcome of the framework could be a new proposal, or new proposals, or a new direction of how a more appli cable project could be established. The methodology is tested in a case study of a wind farm in the UK and relevant conclusions are drawn.;In wind farm planning and in a number of case studies, although there seems to exist consid erable technical potential, it is often the case that merely limited real development perspectives emerge. High technical potential could be related to the abundance of the wind resource in the certain area, expressed interest from investors and developers, absence of planning restrictions, favourable financing schemes, availability of technology, wellstudied logistics, sound operation and maintenance strategies and comprehensive decommissioning plans. Nevertheless, environ mental issues, strong public opposition, uneven distribution of costs and benefits, restricted compensational measures, unfortunate project design and illdefined communication strategies among others can cause severe delays in project realisation and even total cancellation. It is