International Journal of Sustainable Energy 5layouts, with the associated delay in the application process. Currently, the formal planning appli cation is being processed. The current layout includes 62 wind turbines, 44 turbines less than the first intended layout, with an expected rated capacity of 124155 MW.;The project includes the usual large amount of stakeholders of different typologies. Five stake holders are indicatively selected for this study as a possible representation of the different preferences that real participants might have. This selection of stakeholders is more symbolic and, in the context of this study, it mainly aims to facilitate a type of sensitivity analysis on the criteria weights. They are introduced below; Opposition group  local villagers and regional NGOs who strongly oppose to the wind farm proposal and have united efforts and organised an opposition platform (Nonantymochwind farm.co.uk).  Environmentalist NGO  a regional or national NGO that stands to protect fauna, flora, and natural landscapes, but they are not against wind power.  Regional Authority  interested in achieving its share on the 2020 EU goals on share of renew able energy in electricity generation, creating jobs in the area but also in preserving the natural and historical heritage.  Investor  interested in maximising profits and minimising costs.  Project Developer  interested on the success of the development, on finding a compromise solution if the initial proposal receives strong opposition or its permit is denied.;These five stakeholders will execute the criteria preference elicitation exercise. This is done at the Department of Earth Sciences, Uppsala University in a roleplay workshop, where the 2013 2014 MSc students of Wind Power Project Development provided their relevant hypothetical weights, fully following a structured approach proposed in the literature. Analytical details can be found in Section 3.5 later in the text.;The aim of defining three alternative variant scenarios, with different wind turbine models, is to better assess the impact of each criterion to local acceptance and actual applicability. Would a wind park with the same installed capacity with the reference scenario but with less number of larger wind turbines be more likely to be accepted? Or smaller turbines with lower tipheight would be preferred by the locals but still attractive enough for the developers or investors? Scenario 1 consists of 40 wind turbines Enercon E48, 800 kW, with a total installed capacity of 32 MW. It has 16 turbines less than the reference scenario. The turbines hub height is 50 m,