Table 5. Impact matrix for the variant scenarios considered.;Normalisation of the subcriteria values is considered also in a 110 scale and transforma tion of a minimisation subcriterion to maximisation is done, where appropriate. One may note that some of the subcriteria considered here are other criteria already in use to evaluate the sce narios. This is quite expected since in reality public acceptance depends on a number of diverse parameters. The subcriterion Wind development background and social awareness (d) evaluates the local community recent experience to support a wind power development or, on the contrary, to oppose. It is assessed on a qualitative 110 scale. The current proposal (Scenario 3) is given a minimal value of 1, as it has already gained strong local opposition. The other scenarios are graded accordingly to their association to the original development.;3.4.5.4. Public participation in the funding of the project. The Public Participation in the funding of the Project is also assessed on a qualitative basis following the 110 usual scale already used before in other criterion evaluations. Variant scenarios that exhibit higher accep tance are likelier to engage the local community to participate in funding a percentage of the project. In addition, variants with lower initial investment will enable the local community to reach a significant share of the total investment, and thus increase the appreciation of the local community towards the project and its benefits, and reinforcing the public participation in a positive feedback. Indicative results of the evaluation of this criterion can be found in Table 5.;3.5. Impact matrix and preference elicitation;The impact matrix after the evaluation of the criteria following the procedures, assumptions and data described earlier, is presented in Table 5. In a roleplay workshop, the 20132014 MSc students of Wind Power Project Develop ment Department of Earth Sciences, Uppsala University, provided their relevant weights. In order to weighting the criteria, we used the indirect weighting methodology developed by Simos (1990) and used in many cases of MCDA in energy and environmental planning (Georgopoulou, Sarafidis, and Diakoulaki 1998 Figueira and Roy 2002). The weights obtained for all five stakeholders involved in the process are shown in Table 6. The weights calculated for each stakeholder emphasise their respective role. The local oppo sition group gives great importance to the environmental and societal criteria like the impact to land use, visual impact, and local employment creation. The environmentalist NGO highlighted also the environmental and societal criteria but also raised the importance of the energy criterion.