Figure 1. The proposed methodological framework for increasing the overall applicability of wind power projects.;Figure 1. The proposed methodological framework for increasing the overall applicability of wind power projects.therefore, evident, that a type of gap between theoretical and actual development possibilities appears that is not usually justified from an untainted technical point of view. The methodological framework established in this paper unfolds in a number of steps that lead to the identification of an alternative wind farm project that would include higher actual applicability compared with an original somehow poorly defined so far proposal. Figure 1 presents the proposed methodological framework. It is frequently the case that an original proposal for a specific wind farm would see lim ited actual implementation potential, usually from a wider societal point of view. Although the developer may have already presented a coherent approach to project realisation and the project is quite viable economically and the relevant environmental issues that may arise are planned to be tackled, the project may seem not quite ready to be implemented yet due to societal issues that could arise, such as public opposition, landscape protection, environmental concerns, severe change of the character of the area, etc. The methodological framework proposed here recommends that a number of variations of the original proposal could be developed. These variant alternative scenarios are generated based on deviations that could include the number of wind turbines, the type andor height of turbines, the total installed capacity of the wind park, and different configurations and micrositting (Moorthy and Deshmukh 2013). After the new variants were developed (the initial proposal is maintained in the portfolio), the next step aims to establish evaluation criteria which operationalise several dimensions of sustainability. Thus, energy (resourcebased), environmental, economic, social, cultural, and technological attributes are identified that are considered pertinent for an integrated evaluation of the developed variants. Every criterion is associated with a specific direction of preference (minimisation or maximisation criterion) and explicit units of measurements. For the quantita tive criteria these units are straightforward, for example tonnes of CO2 emissions saved per year or the number of permanent jobs created in the area. For the qualitative criteria, an appropri ate relevant scale of measurement is created that will be utilised to provide for a comparative evaluation of the variants. Then, the selection of a certain MCDA technique comes. There are not good or bad MCDA techniques, rather some techniques better fit to particular type of problems (Polatidis et al. 2006). In the context of wind farm planning, this framework proposes the outranking PROMETHEE II method as appropriate due to its simplicity, ease of use, transparency, sound presentation of results and clear meaning of the parameters included. Subsequently, the weighting of the criteria is realised. In most of MCDA techniques, a number is used to account for the relative importance of the evaluation criteria. This number is called weight or weight coefficient and it reflects the general importance of the criterion in the context of the particular MCDA method. Different MCDA techniques use different criteria integration algorithms and the meaning of weights is different (Choo, Schoner, and Wedley 1999 Munda 2004). There are a number of weight elicitation techniques, but the user should be careful since