4 H. Polatidis and J.B. Morales;Figure 2. Map of the Wales region, NantyMoch area and proposed location of the wind farm. Source Maps of Wales in Figure 2 is taken from Wikipedia Commons (httpcommons.wikimedia.orgwiki FileUkmapwales.png) and the website of the Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) Renewables (httpsse.com).;Figure 2. Map of the Wales region, NantyMoch area and proposed location of the wind farm. Source Maps of Wales in Figure 2 is taken from Wikipedia Commons (httpcommons.wikimedia.orgwiki FileUkmapwales.png) and the website of the Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) Renewables (httpsse.com).they are not all suited for every MCDA method (Weber and Borcherding 1993 Rogers and Bruen 1998 Halkowicz, McDonald, and Smith 2000). In any case, the inclusion of weights in the analysis is an incentive for enhanced public participation, a diverse audience of stakeholders can be expressed and a chance for minorities to influence the result and propose their attributes that could be reflected in the new established proposal is revealed. The ultimate result of the process would be the identification of a new project proposal that will exhibit increased actual implementation potential. At any rate, the process would facilitate the documentation of parameters that need to be optimised so that a better, more applicable wind project could be established and proposed. In the next section, an application of the proposed methodological framework is presented. The case study selected concerns a real application of a wind farm development process in the UK, where strong opposition has arisen from the local community. It should be noted here that the subsequent analysis does not aim to provide for a concrete new proposal to the developers and the local community, but to identify the actual applicability of the proposed action and to propose some potential variant(s) scenario(s) that theoretically could be more applicable. To this end, it consist only a pure academic laboratory exercise to a real problem and no real stakeholders consultations have been initiated and no real decisionmakers preferences have been elicited.;Scottish and Southern Energy (SSE) Renewables (httpsse.com) has manifested its interest in developing a wind power plant in an area of the Cambrian Mountains, close to NantyMoch reservoir, in Wales, the UK (Figure 2). The area is quite remote and the nearest dwelling is 7 km away from the development. The area is typified as rural farming and commercial forestry (SSE Renewables NantyMoch Scoping Document 2010) and it is well known for its biodiversity and scenic beauty. The particular site chosen exhibits very encouraging wind conditions and it is classified as Classification IIA (NOABL Wind Map 2010). The developers started the formal procedure for wind power development in summer 2008. During public exhibitions and formal consultation processes, strong local opposition arose gen erating the problematic to review the proposed layout and finally presented up to three reduced