8 H. Polatidis and J.B. Morales;It is noticeable that the capacity factor in variant scenario 4, with larger wind turbines, is somewhat lower than in variant scenarios 2 and 3. This might be surprising at first but in fact it is consistent with the power curve of G128 unit, with rated power at rated wind speed and power curtailment for high wind speeds.;3.4.3.1. Introduction. One of the most important factors when comparing the economic via bility of each variant scenario is assessing the electricity market price during their lifecycle. In the UK spot market, the mean electricity price for February 2013 is 45.01 MWh (Apxgroup.com 2014). Also there exists the tradable Renewables Obligation Certificates (ROC), whose average value during 20122013 was 44.38. ROC are assigned prorated to each renewable technology, with the ratio for onshore wind power 1 ROC per MWh (Ofgem Renewables Obligation 2014). Thus, the total income per generated MWh is 45.01  44.38  89.39 MWh. Converting it into Euros with an exchange ratio 1.1979 e (14 March 2014) it becomes 107.08 eMWh. This is the value used in relevant calculations in this study and it is considered stable during the life time of the project.;3.4.3.2. Net present value. The net present value (NPV) is calculated via RETScreen Method 2. To calculate the NPV, the following parameters have to be determined; Annual income  The annual income is calculated by multiplying the electricity price with the AEP. It is con sidered that AEP would be constant during the whole lifecycle of the wind farm, which is a rather strong simplification. Nevertheless, a stable annual reduction of 2 is assumed for the total price of electricity including the price of ROC.  Annual service costs  Details for their calculation can be found below, see criterion Operation and Maintenance Costs. For the NPV calculation, service costs are supposed to increase annually with infla tion. In the UK, the mean inflation rate for 2013 was 2.6 (Tradingeconomics.com 2014). A constant inflation of 2.6 per annum is assumed during the project lifecycle.  Project lifecycle, debt interest rate, debt term and debt ratio  The project lifecycle is set to 20 years for comparison purposes, as it is the shortest project life expectation of all considered wind turbines. The debt interest rate in the UK is currently 5.5 (Barclays.co.uk 2014). To keep it simple, a debt with a fixed interest rate of 5.5 for all variant alternatives is considered. The debt term is accordingly adjusted to avoid having periods with increasingly negative cash flow. All scenarios with multimegawatt turbines (scenarios 2, 3 and 4) have it set at 12 years, whereas Scenario 1, with smaller turbines, has it set at 15 years. The debt ratio (the ratio of debt over the sum of the debt and the equity of a project) is considered 80 for all variant projects which represents a quite typical case.;3.4.3.3. Internal rate of return and simple payback. The internal rate of return (IRR) and sim ple payback are straightforward calculated via RETScreen. IRR is usually used in combination with NPV in order to assess the economic viability of an investment. The quite unusual high factors found for the IRR, come up as a result of the very favourable selling price of the MWh considered. For a comprehensive presentation of pertinent economic criteria, one may refer to Polatidis and Haralambopoulos (2007b), among others.