International Journal of Sustainable Energy, 2014 httpdx.doi.org10.108014786451.2014.975130;In this paper a methodological framework for increasing the actual applicability of wind farms is devel oped and applied. The framework is based on multicriteria decision aid techniques that perform an integrated technical and societal evaluation of a number of potential wind power projects that are a vari ation of a preexisting actual proposal that faces implementation difficulties. A number of evaluation criteria are established and assessed via particular related software or are comparatively evaluated among each other on a semiqualitative basis. The preference of a diverse audience of pertinent stakeholders can be also incorporated in the overall analysis. The result of the process is an identification of a new project that will exhibit increased actual implementation potential compared with the original proposal. The methodology is tested in a case study of a wind farm in the UK and relevant conclusions are drawn.;It is long established that for the successful commissioning of a technological project, an extended platform is needed to cover the planning, designing, constructing and operation phases that will also address the complex technical, economic, environmental and social issues involved (Wolsink 2007 Polatidis and Haralambopoulos 2007a). Particularly for the case of wind power projects, their promotion sometimes assumes that the behaviour of the population concerned is one of passive acceptance. Such practices have led in the past in failures, conflicts, and slack atti tudes that endanger the strategic goals of sustainable development. Wind power projects could become more applicable if a social acceptance environment, catering both for their technological and management attributes, is created and maintained throughout their whole lifetime (Polatidis and Haralambopoulos 2004 Gross 2007). It is frequently the case that the whole picture becomes blurred as several actors involved get entangled in incompatible issues such as their concern for the environment and the need for regional development, in contrast to NIMBYtype reactions, undermining efforts and wasting financial and human resources. Consequently, even though from a pure practical perspective in a number of cases there seems a considerable technical potential for wind energy projects development (favourable wind