Table 4. Indicative investment cost for variant scenario 1.;3.4.3.4. Initial investment. The average investment cost in the UK in 2006 was less than 1.3 MeMW (EWEA 2009). Due to currency devaluation in time, the amount that should be assumed for 2014 should be higher. Nevertheless, costs decrease as the technologylearning curve advances and market matures. An amount of 1.3 MeMW is assumed as investment cost for the scenarios with multimegawatt turbines. For Scenario 1, with 40 Enercon E48 turbines, an indicative cost breakdown based on own experience is used to calculate the total investment (Table 4).;3.4.3.5. Operation and maintenance costs. Operation and maintenance costs are assessed as a percentage of the annual energy income. For scenarios 2, 3 and 4 according to our experience and the market tendency, the service costs percentage should be around 1012 (EWEA 2004 EWEA 2009). A percentage of 12 is adopted, giving a cost of 6.4eMWh (ROC price is not included in the calculation of the service costs). For Scenario 1, that has much smaller turbines, the percentage is obtained also from own market experience but it is considered higher, around 17 of the energy income, that is, 9eMWh.;3.4.4.1. CO2 emissions avoided. The equivalent CO2 emissions were calculated using the most recent value of annual emission factor of 0.43 tonsCO2MWh from the UK Department of Energy  Climate Change (DECC 2013). This factor is assumed constant during the project life cycle, although in a realistic scenario we would see a slow reduction of that factor as the renewable energy share in electricity generation increases.;3.4.4.2. Avian mortality. Sovacool (2009) has studied the avian mortality registered from wind power plants. The study estimates that wind farms are responsible for 0.3 fatalities per gigawatthour (GWh) of electricity produced, and it emphasises that isolated wind turbines or turbines at the end of the array have higher fatality ratios. Here, a qualitative 110 avian mor tality index is established. It is assessed as a weighted average (equal weights) and normalisation of the presumed mortality due to turbines and the presence of protected bird species. The annual presumed mortality is calculated according to the following formulae;Annual presumed mortality  0.3  AEP  (1  percentage of isolated turbines). (1);The percentage of isolated turbines is used to increase the presumed mortality of each variant scenario, assuming that those isolated turbines will increase the overall bird mortality. Thus, the presumed fatalities assumed are proportional to the AEP plus an aggrieving percentage equal to the isolated turbines ratio. For example, scenario 3 exhibits a percentage of 50 of isolated turbines (it has the most scattered layout), whereas Scenario 4, with fewer turbines and placed in a compact layout, has a percentage of 25.