Geophysical surveys to characterise the seabed before windfarm development may use seismic devices, which are known to be disruptive to marine mammals (Gordon et al. 2003). However, as it is necessary to penetrate only a few metres into the substratum, lowenergy systems such as pingers, parametric subbottom profilers and chirpers are used (Fugro Marine GeoServices Inc. 2017), the effects of which on marine mammals are generally seen to be trivial, in contrast with the highintensity airguns required to search for oil and gas deposits (Gordon et al. 2003 Cerchio et al. 2014).;Before the start of construction of any OWF, the seabed is also checked for unexploded ordnance (UXO), which is either removed or exploded at the site. In Germany, the use of a bubble curtain is required to mitigate the noise impact of a detonated UXO, but if no mitigation measures are applied such explosions have a high potential to harm marine mammals. Given that UXO is frequently found in European waters, some authors (e.g. von BendaBeckmann et al. 2015 Aarts et al. 2016) consider this to be an important potential impact, although no specific studies of actual effects appear to have been undertaken.;Before any piling activity begins, construction and guard vessels arrive at the site and acoustic harrassing devices (AHDs), such as pingers and seal scarers, may be used to deter marine mammals from the construction site in order to reduce the risk of hearing damage. In their study on seven German OWF projects, Brandt et al. (2018) observed significant decreases in detections of Harbour Porpoise at distances of up to 10 km before piling commenced. This was independent of piling or deterrence measures. The most likely explanation for this is the effect of increased shipping activity during preparation works (see Effects of service vessels, below), which was enhanced at low wind speeds by increasing sound propagation (see also Dragon et al. 2016). The effects of AHDs before and during piling were also exacerbated at lower wind speed, indicating that the effects of wind and sea state on sound propagation may be underestimated.