 Site selection and feasibility study. The earliest stages of a project will involve both environmental characterisation to highlight issues likely be significant during consenting, and acquisition of reliable data on geotechnical and metocean parameters, which will govern the feasibility of installation and operation in that particular area. Traditionally, these early stages involve little engineering input, although there are significant advantages to a higher level of input in reducing development risk. In simple terms, the higher the level of certainty of physical and environmental site conditions, the greater the confidence that the project has been designed appropriately according to those conditions and is ultimately buildable. Water depth, seabed conditions, marine and coastal processes, wind resource, distance from shore, and suitable cable landfall sites and port facilities are all important factors to consider, both in terms of financial feasibility and in helping to predict the likely level of impact that the prospective development may have on environmental receptors.; Screening and scoping. These terms are defined within the EIA Directive and associated national regulations. Screening is the process whereby the outline detail of the project in question is presented to the appropriate regulatory body, which then advises on whether the project requires an EIA. Screening is not mandatory under the EIA Directive, but is useful to ensure that the developers understanding is in line with that of the authorities. The next stage of the process, scoping, is mandatory if a development has been screened as requiring EIA. Scoping determines the coverage and content of assessment, setting out the evidence that the competent authority and its advisors wish to see in support of an application for consent.; EIA. Impact assessment begins with definition of the project parameters for which a consent is sought, establishment of baseline conditions and characterisation of environmental receptors with the potential to be affected by the development. The impact assessment proper uses standard methods to