Taiwan has the same environmental threats as Japan, namely earthquakes and tropical cyclones that frequently visit the island. The highest standards of design, manufacturing and installation are necessary to ensure that both the developers assets and the countrys electricity supplies are protected under such conditions. Grid connection is another challenge, as generation tends to be focused in particular geographic areas, leading to network constraints. Most projects are crowded along the coastal areas of Chang Hua County, while most of 20 GW photovoltaics projects are located around Yun Lin County, Chang Hua County and Chia Yi County nearby. The main grid operator, Taipower, is exploring several solutions to ease the load tension between both wind andsolar development in central Taiwan and ensure that energy is distributed to highdemand areas.;The first offshore wind energy development project in the USA was Cape Wind. In 2001, the developer, Cape Wind Associates, submitted an application to the Army Corps for a project in Nantucket Sound, Massachusetts, on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), and in 2002 was granted a permit for a meteorological tower, which was installed in the same year. The developer then applied for a commercial lease from the Department of the Interiors Minerals Management Service in 2005.;The OCS is regulated by the federal government and begins, for most states, 3 nautical miles offshore and extends for at least 200 nautical miles to the edge of the Exclusive Economic Zone. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, offshore wind leasing on the OCS became the responsibility of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM), part of the Department of the Interior, which is responsible for all leases, easements and rights of way for renewable energy development activity. The mission of BOEMs Office of Renewable Energy Programs is to regulate environmentally responsible offshore renewable energy development activities. BOEM carries out an EIS, required under the National Environmental Policy Act, as well as technical review of the Construction and Operation Plan (COP). Once the COP has been approved, the lessee has to submit a Facility Design Report and a Fabrication and Installation Report before construction of a project can commence.;For Cape Wind, the final EIS was published in 2009, followed by the Environmental Assessment and Finding of No New Significant Impact in April 2010. In October 2010 at the American Wind Energy Association conference in Atlantic City, the then Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, signed the first commercial offshore wind lease in the USA for Cape Wind for a 33year term comprised of a fiveyear assessment term and 28year operations term. In 2015, the developer submitted a request for a twoyear suspension of the operations term, which BOEM approved in July 2015. A