While recognising the importance of such decisionmaking tools, particularly the seminal work of Garthe and Hppop (2004), they are clearly less useful where their development lags behind marine spatial planning decisions (Maclean et al. 2014). Certain et al. (2015) also critiqued some basic assumptions of such models and their underlying mathematics, suggesting that refinements would permit better management decisions. Recommendations included separate assessment of pressures such as displacement and collision as per Furness at al. (2013) and Bradbury et al. (2014) and, more importantly, the separation of vulnerability between primary and secondary factors in order to weight them differently. In thecollision index, for example, the percentage of flights at rotor height and time spent in flight were identified as primary factors, whereas manoeuvrability and nocturnal activity were classed as secondary, aggravating, factors, being relevant only if a species flies at risk height. Finally, Certain et al. (2015) also argue that the multiplication of factors such as vulnerability and abundance can result in information loss, potentially making the risk maps such as those in Bradbury et al. (2014) less useful than they might be. Generic modifications to the formulae are suggested.;Another common feature of the sensitivity index approach is that factors lacking empirical evidence depend on expert opinion (Bailey et al. 2014). However, there is consistent identification of gulls as the group most sensitive to collision risk, and inshore coastal areas and some shallow banks as the most sensitive locations for windfarm development. Large concentrations of breeding seabirds, particularly gulls, have been identified as a significant influence in this respect (Leopold  Dijkman 2010 Gressetvold 2013 Bradbury et al. 2014). While the vulnerability of gulls to collision is borne out by the limited evidence available to date at onshore and offshore wind farms, theoretical risk predicted in EIAs has not been an accurate predictor of mortality at onshore wind farms (Ferrer et al. 2012), as abundance may not equate to collision risk (de Lucas et al. 2008 Hull et al. 2013). To illustrate the point, Northern Gannet features high in terms of collision risk using the revised methods of Certain et al. (2015), but building evidence suggests that Northern Gannet is generally displaced from wind farms (Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Dierschke et al. 2016 Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). This illustrates the importance of refining these factors based on withinwindfarm evidence as it accrues, such as from Skov et al. (2018).