Scour protection around the base of turbines and associatedinfrastructure is a key component of the design and engineering of an OWF (Whitehouse et al. 2011). With careful planning and design, the varying types and methods of scour protection have the capacity to enhance existing habitats, for example through placement of boulder protection or concrete mattressing (Wilson  Elliott 2009) (Box 4.2). These structures are attractive sheltered environments for species such as Edible Crab and European Lobster Homarus gammarus, which prefer a sheltered reef area adjacent to sandy areas for feeding. Mobile species, such as fish including Atlantic Cod Gadus morhua and Pouting Trisopterus luscus, may also be attracted by prey among the rich epifaunal growth (see Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) and the presence of juveniles such as Atlantic Cod suggests the use of OWFs as nurseries for fish (e.g. Langhamer 2012 Reubens et al. 2013 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5).;Ecological engineering is a widely used tool (Elliott et al. 2016). Construction of seawalls for habitat complexity instead of a uniform surface has been highly successful in increasing diversity and colonisation by creating tidepooltype habitats (CMA 2009 Browne  Chapman 2011). Pipeline construction in the Indian Ocean was designed to include habitat and nursery areas for fish (Pioch et al. 2011), and habitat restoration and creation schemes using reef balls have taken place in several locations, with positive impacts for both diversity and seadefence purposes (Barber 2012). The creation of refuges on offshore structure foundations has significantly increased stocks of the Edible Crab Cancer pagurus (Langhamer et al. 2009). Therefore, using ecological engineering principles at the construction stage of future wind farms would allow the possibility for a valuable habitat to develop, providing conservation aspects, niches and prey for predators which could remain at the end of the wind farms life. However, care must be taken to provide the right initial artificial substratum,