In addition to changes in environmental conditions, trophic interactions are the main forcing factors for the occurrence, distribution and behaviour of organisms (e.g. MacArthur 1955 Pimm 1982 McCann 2000). Feeding relationships constitute the biological base of ecological functioning, as the species is the evolutionarily derived basic entity of ecological functioning. Consequently, alterations in the species inventory directly affect the food web of the benthic system (May 1983 Chapin et al. 2000).;During the construction and decommissioning of OWFs, forage species are smothered by mobilised sediment. The recovery rate of benthic animals depends on the sediment type and on the species ability to migrate to the surface (Newell et al. 1998 Powilleit et al. 2009). It is axiomatic that species in mobile sandbanks are adapted to rapid changes of sediment, such as from storms, and so are readily able to recover from introduced sediment and smothering (Gray  Elliott 2009). Despite this, these species may be unavailable for predators for a short to medium period, although scavenging species may be able to prey or scavenge on species damaged during construction works as an additional food source, as is known to occur with bottom trawling (Gray  Elliott 2009).;Construction works also lead to changes in the sediment biogeochemistry and increased turbidity in the water column (Watling et al. 2001). Resuspended organic matter from deeper sediment layers may thereby become accessible to deposit and suspension feeders in the wider surrounding area by the spread of prevailing currents, defined as farfield effects with the dispersion of fine material (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2).;There is increasing evidence of the effects of noise and vibration on fish and the benthos (Roberts et al. 2015, 2016a,b Roberts  Elliott 2017). For example, the noise generated during the construction of an OWF can cause fish to avoid the area and thus release the benthos from predation pressure on a short timescale (Andersson 2011 Roberts et al. 2016a,b). Andersson (2011) showed a behavioural response of Atlantic Cod and Common Sole Solea solea in that the fish showed directional swimming away from the piledriving noise with an increased swimming speed, thereby decreasing feeding pressure on the benthic forage species in the direct vicinity of the construction activities.