The introduction of any new object into the marine environment has the capacity to cause a change in the volume or area, diversity and quality of habitats present in both the immediate and adjacent marine environment. With regard to offshore wind developments, this has been the subject of several studies (e.g. Wilson  Elliott 2009). Throughout the offshore wind industry, monopiles (Figure 4.1) are still the most commonly used form of turbine foundation, used for 75 of all turbines installed (EWEA 2014). However, there have been significant developments in other technologies, including floating structures supporting turbines and gravity bases, which will bring with them their own impacts from a benthic community perspective.;The key element to consider is not just the introduction of new habitat, which may be considered a positive development (Wilson  Elliott 2009), but the introduction of a new type of habitat, that is the introduction of hard material into an area where this generally did not exist. As a result, this must be considered an important habitat replacement, rather than merely habitat creation.;Any structure in the marine environment has the potential to become an artificial reef through colonisation by marine biota (Wilson  Elliott 2009 Wilson et al. 2010), and will inevitably create different andor additional habitat to that originally present. Although the footprint of a typical turbine foundation is estimated at less than 1 of the windfarm area (Petersen  Malm 2006) and despite turbine foundations and scour protection removing the underlying infaunal habitat, the monopile and scour protection with which it is replaced can create 2.5 times the amount of area that was lost (Wilson  Elliott 2009). For example, in the German Bight, the surface of a hard foundation similar to a wind turbine base (1,280 m) was covered by an average of 4.3 t marine organism biomass and contained 35 times more macrozoobenthic biomass than the same area of soft bottom in the German Exclusive Economic Zone (0.12 kgm2) (Krone et al. 2013a). This introduction of a hard structure with (potentially) more or different biomass than the surrounding habitat type is known as the reef effect. In addition, during the operational phase, OWFs are generally