For Cape Wind, the final EIS was published in 2009, followed by the Environmental Assessment and Finding of No New Significant Impact in April 2010. In October 2010 at the American Wind Energy Association conference in Atlantic City, the then Secretary of the Interior, Ken Salazar, signed the first commercial offshore wind lease in the USA for Cape Wind for a 33year term comprised of a fiveyear assessment term and 28year operations term. In 2015, the developer submitted a request for a twoyear suspension of the operations term, which BOEM approved in July 2015. Afurther application for suspension was made in June 2017. Unfortunately, after this extremely lengthy process it was announced in December 2017 that the developer had decided to terminate the lease.;Despite this setback, the Smart from the Start wind energy initiative for siting, leasing and construction of new projects in the Atlantic OCS launched in 2010 is starting to prove to be a successful process for US offshore wind. Smart from the Start is a coordinated approach to spatial planning and leasing, not too dissimilar to TCEs zonal development process for UK Round 3. Priority Wind Energy Areas (WEAs) are identified for potential development, and data are gathered by BOEM from key federal agencies, for example on environmental constraints, physical characteristics and other sea users, which are then made available to potential bidders for lease auctions. The key objective of this process is to accelerate development and permitting through better coordination and siting of offshore wind areas that reduce the risk of conflict with wildlife and other marine users. The Bureau of Land Management had previously used such a strategy to site solar projects in the western USA.;In 2012, BOEM reached agreement on a commercial lease, the first awarded under the Smart from the Start initiative, with prominent US developer Bluewater Wind for an area of the OCS off Delaware. Following a Determination of No Competitive Interest, a lease was executed with Bluewater Wind in November 2012. BOEM has so far identified WEAs off Massachusetts, Rhode Island Massachusetts, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. Competitive lease sales have already been concluded for two WEAs. On 31 July 2013, BOEM held the first ever competitive lease sale for renewable energy in federal waters. Deepwater Wind, backed by New York investment company the D.E. Shaw Group, won the first two leases (North and South) in the MassachusettsRhode Island WEA with a 3.8 million bid. The auction reportedly lasted for 11 rounds. A commercial lease sale was held for the Virginia WEA in September 2013 Dominion Virginia Power was the winner with a 1.6 million bid in an auction lasting for six rounds.