This is the horizontal gradient of the wind stress on the sea surface, as previously discussed. Notably, the upwelling is proportional to the curl of the wind stress on a rotating ocean, which in the above formula describes the divergence in the winddriven (Ekman) current. To provide a numerical example, if the wind in a storm at 20 ms or 0.75 Nm2 (see Box 3.2) changes to zero over 500 km, this gives a curl() that is 1.5106 Nm. In a wind farm, 0.2 Nm2 may be measured outside the wind farm from a 10 ms wind and 0.1 Nm2 insidethe wind farm from a 7.5 ms wind. If this is over 5 km, the result would be 2105 Nm, or 13 times the value from a storm. The corresponding induced vertical velocities are about 1 and 14 mday, respectively, and the latter magnitude represents both the upwelling and downwelling dipole of the wind farm. However, upwelling and downwelling of this magnitude would not be expected as the signal will be redistributed over a larger area, perhaps ten times as large, thus giving an upwelling or a downwelling in the order of 1.4 mday. In the case of upwellingdownwelling of 1 mday, with a width of 10 km wide and a length of 20 km approximating to eight times the area of the wind farm, the upwelling would be 2108 m3day or roughly 2,000 m3s.;Given that the wind farms of today are comparable in size to the internal radius of deformation, it follows that the oceanic response is distributed over an area that is larger than the wake area. However, at the same time the upwelling velocities become smaller, since horizontal gradients are reduced. The upwelling and downwelling will also create density gradients in the upper layer that create horizontal ocean currents. In combination with the existing background velocity field, this density driven flow will, in turn, advect the density field, creating a response pattern that could eventually cover a large area.;Figure 3.3 shows a simulation based on an idealised wind wake from a wind farm of 55 km2 under a wind speed of 7.5 ms and where the wind wake is about twice as long as the wind farm (see also Brostrm 2008). The results show an upwellingdownwelling dipole that is 2040 times as large as the wind farm itself, and where the upwellingdownwelling areas are of about equal size. The resulting vertical velocity is about 0.51 mday and the total upwelling is thus in the order of 2108 m3day. If the upwelling brings nutrientrich water to the surface it will lead to increased primary production (Box 3.4). It is noted that the wind wake used by Brostrm (2008) is based on very crude assumptions it seems likely that the assumed size of the wind wake is actually too small, and increasing the length of the wake will increase the areas of