To date, northern European waters have seen the greatest deployment of OWFs, and knowledge of the various disturbance effects on fish associated with OWFs is being increasingly substantiated owing to the realisation of several longterm monitoring programmes along with targeted studies andexperiments. However, the majority of studies have been limited to single species, and tend to contribute primary data on the influence of OWFs on fish at the scale of a single installation or a small number of foundations. Thus, while the fish community evidently responds to the presence of OWFs, manifested as changing abundance, species assemblages, spatial and temporal distribution and movement or migration (see Perrow et al. 2011 Bergstrm et al. 2013 Reubens et al. 2013a) (Box 5.1), the scientific methods and approaches used have not yet generally been able to determine whether biological or ecologically significant changes have occurred, as previously noted for oil and gas platforms (Box 5.2).;Considerable knowledge gaps regarding the nature and longevity of impacts thus remain, particularly in relation to the scale of direct effects and the ecological outcomes of indirect effects on fish assemblages associated with OWFs. Continued, targeted and enhanced monitoring of speciesspecific attributes during construction and operation to recognise more reliably any positive or negative (adverse) impacts on the fish community is required to gauge properly the consequences of OWF developments (Lindeboom et al. 2015). The need for further research also requires answers to the question of how the anticipated positive or negative effects manifest themselves, such as increases or decreases in abundance, population size or species size structure and productivity. Without answering this question a precautionary approach to OWF may be seen as the most appropriate action, as the changes could put species assemblages of conservation interest at risk. However, it may well be that the local fish community could receive trophic benefits from increased biodiversity associated with OWFs, as suggested by Punt et al. (2009) and Inger et al. (2010). The potential ecological changes associated with OWFs as summarised in Figure 5.4 and Figure 5.5 are based on current understanding of the trophic relations between the primary production and organic sources, the primary consumers, different fish consumer groupings and predators within waters where OWFs are deployed. Ecological impact is expected to result from changes in the fish assemblages, an increase or decrease in the productivity of the fish groups (linked to individual fish size and abundance) and altered distribution associated with new habitat opportunities and refuges.