As indicated in Figure 5.5, the submerged turbine component may affect the trophic web functioning in the area (Raoux et al. 2017). Wind turbines seem to offer particularly favourable substrates for colonising invertebrate filterers such as Blue Mussel and cirriped barnacles, principally Semibalanus balanoides (de Mesel et al. 2015 Dannheim et al., Chapter 4), with the resultant sessile biota being dominated either by these groups or by assemblages comprised of anemones, hydroids and solitary sea squirts (Wilhelmsson  Malm 2008 Maar et al. 2009 Ashley et al. 2014). The matrices of sessile biota on the wind turbines also harbour macroinvertebrates that constitute a potential food resource for associated fish (Reubens et al. 2013a). The fish and sessileorganisms associated with the turbines may, further, contribute to increased benthic productivity around the turbines through the deposition of organic material, such as faecal matter, organic litter and dead organisms, which may, in turn, attract benthosfeeding, softsediment associated fish (Figure 5.5) (Wilhelmsson et al. 2006). The associated productivity is taken into account in the cyclical arrows shown in grey in Figure 5.5.;The fact that OWFs exclude or largely restrict fishing trawls within their footprint may be of importance for certain fish species, in particular heavily fished and relatively stationary vulnerable species, as suggested by Ashley et al. (2014). OWF areas, including their safety zones, may resemble notake zones (NTZs), which could lead to average increases in the biomass of fish for the area as a whole, although there will always be a risk of redirecting fishing pressure to other areas. Metaanalyses of the average effects of NTZs globally suggest that fish density and biomass may be doubled and tripled, respectively, along with increased body size of individuals and species diversity (Halpern 2003). Being average estimates and sitespecific predictions in relation to certain species or species assemblages, these analyses are inevitably uncertain but plausible. Fish densities and potential spillover effects to adjacent areas may also increase with the size of the NTZ (Claudet  Pellitier 2004) hence, the size of the OWF may mirror this prediction.;The empirical evidence for similar effects of fisheries exclusion on fish assemblages in windfarm areas is weak. Results from surveys targeting fish assemblages within an OWF area as a whole, including the area between the turbines, in Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden indicate either increased abundance of some species, such as sandeels (Ammodytidae), Atlantic Cod, Whiting Merlangius merlangus and Common Sole, or no effects (Leonhard et al. 2011 Lindeboom et al. 2011 Bergstrm et al. 2013 Stenberg et al. 2015 Vandendriessche et al. 2015). One cannot exclude, however, that the interpretation of these effects is disguised by a concentration of fish around the artificial structures, which was not picked up by the surveying methods used. In