Tidal currents can be modified by the presence of the windfarm structure by either decreasing the flows in the wake of the structure or accelerating the flows around the edges of the farm. In the far field, significant modifications of the flow regime are neitherpredicted nor observed. Computer modelling has also shown that the influence on hydrodynamics from a typical OWF layout is localised to individual structures and at stages of peak flow (ABPmer 2005). The ABPmer (2005) study also showed the combined consequences of the modified flow regime and the presence of a large number of small physical obstacles to a sediment pathway. These factors appear to have minimal influence on the net deposition patterns predicted for sand transport for different grades of sediment, and the structures seem to have little effect on waves.;The interactions between OWF structures, especially turbine foundations and the adjacent substrata, were examined by Wilhelmsson and Malm (2008). Such structures have the potential to alter local hydrodynamic patterns, which can cause changes in benthic biomass and diversity as well as scouring and sediment buildup (e.g. Guichard et al. 2001 Shyue  Yang 2002 Dzbastilar et al. 2006).;The construction of OWFs can potentially lead to sediment resuspension (Bergstrm et al. 2013). The requirement of gravity base and caisson foundations for a level platform on which to sit is created by dredging, which results in the mobilisation of seabed sediments into the water column, temporarily increasing turbidity and, as the sediments settle out of suspension, will deposit a new layer of fine sediment. Similarly, driven or drilled monopiles will also cause sediments to be remobilised, creating a suspended sediment plume. Cablelaying operations will also disturb sediments from the seabed. The extent of any sediment plumes from these activities depends on sediment type, grainsize distribution and the hydrodynamic regime, and thus can vary greatly between sites. Observations of sediment plumes from satellite and aerial platforms have identified their orientation and spatiotemporal extent (Figure 2.3) (Vanhellemont  Ruddick 2014 Forster 2017). However, the impact of these plumes on local habitats has not been determined.