Claisse et al. (2014) show that the complex hard substrate created by oil and gas platforms provides habitat for fish throughout the water column, leading to the highest estimate of secondary production per unit area of seabed of any comparable marine ecosystem studied so far. While oil and gas platforms are similar to offshore wind farms in terms of creating a hard, complex substrate, there is a difference interms of the number of similar structures within a relatively small area of the sea. How this difference will affect fish community productivity remains an intriguing and as yet unanswered question.;Viewing the fish community associated with an OWF as being defined by the presence of the wind turbines and the response of fish to OWFs themselves does, however, ignore the multiple other factors that determine the presence, or indeed the absence, of fish in the OWF area. The marine environment has many other human influences and some of these will act to enhance or hinder the likelihood of specific fish species colonising OWFs, with this also varying through time. Such effects may be assessed as being minor in the short term, but become biologically significant over the longer term (e.g. Slabbekorn et al. 2010) these changes through time and over different spatial scales are defined as incombination effects in this context. The knowledge base is inadequate to assess either incombination effects or the cumulative effects of the installation of multiple wind farms on the marine environment in particular areas (Willsteed et al. 2017), such as the North and Baltic Seas in northwestern Europe. Determination of longer term and more ecologically relevant effects requires data to be collected on fish, their functional habitats and relationship with other species. This perspective over greater spatial and time scales is particularly relevant to understanding the relationship between OWFs and fish when set within the context of the extensive plans for OWFs in a variety of different environments, including subtropical and tropical as well as temperate seas around the globe over the coming decades (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1).