Farfield direct and secondary impacts on sediment transport patterns and pathways are uncertain. Clark et al. (2014) describethat while most research suggests that changes to sediment dynamics will be local, the combined effects of multiple largescale wind farms could alter net sediment transport and deposition, thereby affecting shorelines and bathymetry. Van der Molen et al. (2013) suggest that windfarm arrays in areas with strong currents may lead to stronger farfield effects, and that if this were the case, and if multiple arrays were introduced, interarray interaction might occur.;The flow of water around turbine bases can create scour pits in erodible sediments. The acceleration of the flow around the structure increases the erosion rate in the close proximity of the structure, which allows sediment to be transported away from it. A combination of local waves and currents and substrate type control the formation of scour pits. The Scroby Sands OWF off the East Norfolk coast of the UK is located in very dynamic waters where the extreme conditions have generated some of the largest scour pits around turbine foundations of up to 8 m (Rees 2006). Whitehouse et al. (2011) indicate that the maximum depth of scour (S) in relation to the foundation diameter (D) at a windfarm foundation is SD1.38. The overall extent of scour in a sandbed is typically 4 5D where no protection has been placed.;Structures may also have the capability of mobilising sediment into the water column, creating a plume of suspended sediments, which may have a surface expression (Baeye  Fettweis 2015). Suspended sediment within plumes can be transported over longer distances depending on the particle size and the tidal excursion, which is typically up to 10 km. While in suspension, these additional sediments have the potential to impact on filter feeders and reduce the local light regime, which may impede primary production or the ability of higher predators to locate prey visually (Renouf 1980). Once deposited on the seabed, there is also the potential for sediment to smother benthic habitats, especially those of filterfeeding organisms (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4).