In winter, risk may be increased where wind farms lie on flight paths between feeding grounds and winter roosts. Such commutingflights made up the bulk of local bird movements recorded during the summer and winter periods using both radar and visual observations at Egmond aan Zee wind farm in the Dutch North Zee (Fijn et al. 2015).;Other speciesspecific factors may influence collision risk but evidence of how they apply to seabirds at OWFs is not yet available. These include sensory perception, for example the way in which seabird visual perception appears to have evolved to detect highest detail in the lateral rather than frontal field of view for life in an uncluttered airspace (Martin 2011). Other related factors, such as perception distance, the visibility of moving blades (Hodos 2003) and habituationspatial memory that could lead to evasion (May 2015), may all have a role in collision risk. These factors are described more fully in de Lucas and Perrow (2017).;Theoretical considerations suggest that larger offshore turbines will reduce collision risk owing to their lower rotational speeds (Krijgsveld et al. 2009 Johnston et al. 2014) and increased tip clearance above highest astronomical tide where bird flight height distribution is skewed towards sea level (Johnston et al. 2014). However, a theoretical reduction in collision risk may be offset in part by the larger rotorswept area of larger turbines although, for such turbines the greatest proportional increase in swept area is above the majority of seabird flight heights. Any contrast in colour between the transition piece and the tower could reduce collisions, as demonstrated onshore (de Lucas  Perrow 2017 May 2017). Conversely, jacket structures may also increase collision risk as they provide more perching and roosting opportunities than monopile structures (Vanermen et al. 2017), perhaps encouraging more birds to come into close proximity with the turbine rotors. However, any effect of offshore turbine type on bird collision has rarely been