Organic enrichment has been demonstrated for softbottom sediments adjacent to turbine monopiles (Joschko 2007 Coates et al. 2014), favouring the occurrence of deposit and suspension feeders and a shift in the trophic structure of the surrounding community. For example, Coates et al. (2014) demonstrated an increase of the polychaete worms Lanice conchilega and Spiophanes bombyx up to 25 m from the platform. On the one hand, these tube building polychaetes have the potential to enhance the changes in hydrodynamic flow, grainsize distribution and food availability (Coates et al. 2014) by collecting organic matter, stabilising the sediment and increasing habitat complexity for other species as aresult of their tubes. On the other hand, they constitute a considerable food resource for higher trophic levels (Dannheim et al. 2014). The increase in total organic carbon content results from different organic components such as faeces, pseudofaeces or the decaying tissue of dead animals released from the epifouling community on the artificial structures (Wolfson et al. 1979 Ambrose  Anderson 1990 Widdows et al. 1998 Joschko et al. 2008). Organic matter is likely to be patchily distributed as a result of changes caused by the presence of the turbine (Leonhard et al. 2006), with accumulation of organic material by small gyres. Scour could also create seabed depressions which act as sinks for organic material. In both cases, deposit feeders or interface feeders that profit from the additional organic material may accumulate at a very local scale.;Finally, safety issues and the legal requirement in some countries to create safety buffer zones around individual monopiles are likely to prevent active demersal, benthic and pelagic trawling within the windfarm array (e.g. Lindeboom et al. 2011). Given that seabed trawling is recognised as a major stressor on the seabed (Hall 1999 Kaiser et al. 2006), the cessation of trawling causes two major changes to the benthic foodweb structure (1) the absence of physical sediment disturbance caused by fishing gear and (2) the absence of fisheriesgenerated additional food sources, such as gear induced mortality and discards (Dannheim 2007). The absence of physical disturbance changes the biogeochemistry of the sediment, which particularly affects the occurrence of deposit feeders and increases the settlement of small tubebuilding deposit or interface feeders such as spionid worms like Spiophanes bombyx (Krncke et al. 2004 Wieking  Krncke 2005 Dannheim et al. 2014). Large mobile generalists, including starfish such as Asterias rubens or swimming crabs such as Liocarcinus holsatus, generally profit from the comparably high trophic level food generated by fisheries in the form of gearinduced mortality and discards. Trawling primarily causes mortality of benthic organisms, but many survivors such as mobile predators and scavengers profit from the geargenerated food items (Groenewold  Fonds 2000 Rumohr  Kujawski 2000). Such species may thus actively migrate from nontrawled to trawled areas (Dannheim et al. 2014). At the same time, the missing