For example, flight height is also known to vary according to whether the bird is commuting or foraging (Cleasby et al. 2015a) and may also be inconsistent between species. Similarly, although foraging strategies which include aerial searching and pursuit have been shown to be significant predictors of collision at onshore wind farms (Hull et al. 2013) and may be the case for Northern Gannet, where foraging birds had a greater median flight height than commuting birds (Cleasby et al. 2015a), by contrast, Global Positioning System (GPS)tagged Lesser Blackbacked Gulls flew lower on more tortuous, potentially foraging flights than when intransit (Corman  Garthe 2014), potentially reducing collision. This suggests that although foraging strategy may be an important indicator of risk (Scott et al. 2015), impacts may differ between species. Indirect flight patterns may also mean that the direct flight speeds (e.g. from Pennycuick 1997 Alerstam et al. 2007) used in collision risk modelling to calculate passage rate may be inappropriate as the actual track speed of the bird, as measured by the straight line distance between its start and end point, is relatively slow. Speeds measured at Thanet OWF, based on large sample sizes suggest that for some species, such as Blacklegged Kittiwake, previous estimates were too high and recommends that for collision risk calculations, track speed should be used to calculate passage rate and flight speed as the rate through the actual rotor (Skov et al. 2018).;Other factors, such as wind speed and direction (Spear  Ainley 1997 Ainley et al. 2015), season and time of day, can also influence flight altitude. For example, Skov et al. (2018) found that seabirds flew slightly lower in headwinds within Thanet offshore wind farm and RossSmith et al. (2016) found that GPStagged Lesser Black backed Gulls flew lower at night than by day when 34 occurred at nominal rotor height (22250 m) and tended to fly lower nearshore than offshore although the latter data were not recorded within constructed wind farms. Behaviour may also vary between years (Garthe et al. 2011 Thaxter et al. 2015).;In general, it seems difficult to make generic predictions about how seabird flight behaviour in open water would be modified within a constructed wind farm, as it appears to be species, site and circumstance specific. Postconstruction monitoring is essential to investigate differences and to see whether generic behaviours can be established.