The episodic nature of bird fallout related to attraction to lights at offshore structures has made it difficult to quantify mortality. Moreover, many victims fall into the water and are washed away. In the Gulf of Mexico, it is estimated that the nearly 4,000 platforms may cause roughly 200,000 collision fatalities per year and some estimates of total annual bird mortality at oil and gas platforms in the North Sea are as high as 6 million birds (Ronconi et al. 2015). Drawing conclusionson the potential for collision mortality at offshore wind farms from these data demands extreme caution as the attraction of a single illuminated static structure in the open sea is not directly comparable to that of rotating turbines within an offshore wind farm (Hppop et al. 2016).;Finally, it should be noted that there is considerable scope to reduce bird collision at illuminated structures. For example, at Helgoland, Hugo Weigold, the first head of the Vogelwarte Helgoland (Helgoland Bird Observatory) in the 1920s, introduced bird protection lamps that made the head of the lighthouse visible to birds at night, thereby reducing rates of nocturnal collision (Figure 7.7). Similarly, removing non flashing lights from towers is one of the most effective and economically feasible means of achieving a significant reduction in avian fatalities at onshore communication towers (Gehring et al. 2009). However, this may not be possible for reasons of safety for shipping at offshore wind turbines.;Figure 7.7 Measures to mitigate fatalities (a) at the Helgoland lighthouse (b) in the 1920s included the introduction of bird protection lamps (c), which made the head of the lighthouse visible to birds in darkness. (Archive, Institute of Avian Research Vogelwarte Helgoland);It can be speculated that for birds the risk of collision with offshore wind turbines is greater at night. During the day, migrating birds generally appear to avoid crossing through OWFs (see above), thereby limiting collision risk. Waterfowl, such as ducks and geese, appear to avoid collisions at night by increasing their flight distance