Ecological engineering is a widely used tool (Elliott et al. 2016). Construction of seawalls for habitat complexity instead of a uniform surface has been highly successful in increasing diversity and colonisation by creating tidepooltype habitats (CMA 2009 Browne  Chapman 2011). Pipeline construction in the Indian Ocean was designed to include habitat and nursery areas for fish (Pioch et al. 2011), and habitat restoration and creation schemes using reef balls have taken place in several locations, with positive impacts for both diversity and seadefence purposes (Barber 2012). The creation of refuges on offshore structure foundations has significantly increased stocks of the Edible Crab Cancer pagurus (Langhamer et al. 2009). Therefore, using ecological engineering principles at the construction stage of future wind farms would allow the possibility for a valuable habitat to develop, providing conservation aspects, niches and prey for predators which could remain at the end of the wind farms life. However, care must be taken to provide the right initial artificial substratum,as benthic communities have been noted to be less diverse on foundations made of steel than on concrete foundations, even though abundances and biomasses were not necessarily different (Qvarfordt et al 2006 Wilhelmsson  Malm 2008).;Providing hardsubstratum habitat in a predominantly soft sediment environment, OWFs extend the natural habitat range of several hardsubstratum species. However, most, if not all subtidal species are also known from natural and other artificial subtidal hard substrata, such as rock outcrops, gravel beds and shipwrecks. Wind farms do not appear to add to the regional species pool (Rumes et al. 2013). Wind farms thus contribute little to the range of such species, although extension may occur for obligate intertidal hard substrata species, such as the Common Limpet Patella vulgata, for which offshore habitat is rare to nonexistent. As such, wind farms may allow nonindigenous introduced species and range expanding species to expand their population size and hence to colonise formerly unsuitable areas in the stepping stone hypothesis advanced by Kerckhof et al. (2011). Indeed, it should be noted that, in some instances, there may be negative effects associated with the local changing biodiversity around OWFs leading to unwanted effects. For example, anthropogenic hard substratum such as OWFs in the southern Baltic Sea has the potential to increase the abundance of the Moon Jellyfish Aurelia aurita, conflicting directly with the energy and tourism sectors along the Danish, Polish and German coastlines (Janen et al. 2013).;Most OWFs are built on soft substrata such as sandy seabeds, muds and clays. These sites are generally preferred by windfarm developers, first because of the relative ease of installing turbines in soft rather than harder substrata, and secondly because these habitats predominate in the relatively shallow waters usually selected for windfarm development, such as the southern North Sea. In soft substrata, communities are generally dominated by burrowing organisms, which themselves play a key role in the structuring of the environment through biogenic transformations