 Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 8). Up until now, however, modelling has tended to conclude that barrier effects do not have energetic consequences and do not impact individual fitness. For example, Masden et al. (2009) calculated that small deviations around sites were inexpensive in energetic terms for a migratory species. In relation to breeding seabirds undertaking regular commuting flights, Masden et al. (2010) suggested that energetic costs were more important for those species with relatively high energetic costs of flight resulting from high wing loading, but that the costs of extra flight appeared much lower than those imposed by low food abundance or adverse weather conditions. Empirical studies of real situations, preferably with known individuals undertaking breeding attempts, are needed.;In principle, a proportion of the original habitat within a wind farm may be permanently lost as a result of the footprint of the turbines themselves, and that of any scour protection, which is typically much larger than the turbines. The area lost is generally thought to be a small proportion, at less than 1 (Petersen  Malm 2006),. Moreover, the area of new substrate gained in the form of the turbine tower and associated rocky scour protection may be 2.5 times greater than the area lost, and may provide 0.51.2 ha additional hard substrate per square kilometre of windfarm area according to the type of foundations (monopile or gravitybase) installed (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4).;The fact that the majority of wind farms in northwestern Europe have been built using monopiles (80, according to EWEA 2016) indicates that most wind farms have been installed over soft sediments and thus the hard surfaces introduced are new habitats available for colonisation by the veritable soup of larvae and propagules carried on the prevailing currents. Colonisation is rapid. For example, at the Alpha Ventus test site in German waters, after only a few months an average of five taxa were present on the turbines in each 0.12 m2 area at depths of 110 m sampled by scientific diving. Within 2 years, this had trebled to around 15 taxa per sampled area (Gutow et al. 2014). However, Dannheim et al.