For the BACI analysis, count data were aggregated for control and impact areas separately and per monitoring day, resulting in daily totals for both zones, thus avoiding autocorrelation between subsequent counts along transect lines and minimising overall variance. Only days on which both the control and impact areas were visited were used in the analysis, minimising variation resulting from shortterm temporal changes in seabird abundance. Four different distributions, namely Poisson, negative binomial, zeroinflated Poisson and zeroinflated negative binomial, were considered. Explanatory factor variables included were area (control impact), period (beforeafter), OWF (presentabsent) and fishery (presentabsent). For the last of these, only active fishing vessels observed within a distance of 3 km from the monitoring route were taken into account. To correct for varying monitoring effort, the area counted was included in the model as an offset variable. Lastly, month was used as a continuous variable to model seasonal fluctuations by fitting a cyclic smoother or cyclic sine curve, the latter described by a linear sum of sine and cosine terms (StewartOaten  Bence 2001). AIC was used to select the bestfitting model. The eventual and targeted output values were speciesspecific OWFcoefficients estimating the effect of the wind farm on the different species abundances.;For Common Guillemot Uria aalge (Figure 8.4), analysis showed a significantly negative OWF coefficient of 1.39, corresponding to a decrease in numbers of 75 compared to the abundance in the control area and the period before impact (Figure 8.5). Other significant seabird displacement effects revealed in this study were avoidance by another common alcid auk, Razorbill Alca torda (67), as well as Northern Gannet Morus bassanus (82), in contrast to strong attraction of Lesser Blackbacked Larus fuscus and Great Blackbacked Larus marinus Gulls, which increased in number by a factor of 8.1 and 3.6, respectively.;Figure 8.4 Winter plumage Common Guillemot Uria aalge the most abundant seabird in the Bligh Bank area during the autumn and winter months. (Hilbran Verstraete)