A displacement effect should not be considered synonymous with an impact (Masden et al. 2010a). But knowledge of a bird species response towards OWFs is clearly an indispensable prerequisite ultimately to assess the resulting ecologicalconsequences. Birds subject to displacement can be expected to fly around the wind farm andor spend time searching for alternative foraging habitat, implying an increased energetic cost. When the alternative habitat proves to be of minor quality or the displaced birds need to face increased competition, this may further lead to a decreased food intake rate. All this may have adverse effects on body condition, potentially leading to increased mortality andor decreased productivity (Fox et al. 2006). The quantitative translation of displacement effects into their ultimate impact, however, is highly challenging. Nevertheless, individualbased modelling of a variety of species has begun to show that the fitness consequences of displacement from multiple wind farms could lead to population declines for a number of ecologically diverse species (Topping  Petersen 2011 Searle et al. 2004 WarwickEvans et al. 2018). Meanwhile, these modelling exercises have highlighted that there is insufficient knowledge on a number of crucial input parameters, such as relative habitat quality, population carrying capacities, densitydependent mechanisms and the relation between adult body mass and subsequent survival rate. Gaining more knowledge on these key aspects of seabird ecology and demographics would support a more reliable assessment of the actual ecological consequences and ultimate cumulative impact of extensive OWF installation, and should be the primary goal of future research.;First of all, we would like to thank Martin Perrow for inviting us to write this book chapter, his excellent review and overall dedication to this book series. Of course, we would never have been asked to do this if we had not been given the chance to be involved in seabird displacement research ourselves. Therefore, we kindly thank the Belgian windfarm concession holders for financing the environmental monitoring programme, and Robin Brabant and Steven Degraer of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences (RBINS) for assigning the seabird monitoring to us. A special word of gratitude goes out to DAB Vloot and the Flanders Marine