If implemented appropriately and with consideration of the ten tenets framework for achieving sustainable management (Elliott 2013 Barnard  Elliott 2015), a renewablestoreefs (Smyth et al. 2015) decommissioning scheme involving only partial removal of the wind farm, hence leaving in places benthic aspects such as foundations, scour protection and possibly the lower part of the monopile (or jackettripod in the case of alternative models), could ensure protection for ecologically valuable sites and allow for the regeneration of the disturbed marine environment, at the same time conferring societal benefits. The ten tenets require that ecological, economic, technological, legal, political, administrative, ethical, societal, cultural and communication aspects are included in the decision making. Colocating other activities such as recreation or conservation at the decommissioned site is also possible (Christie et al. 2014) and has the added benefit of easing demands on limited space for development in the marine environment. These measures could be achieved with an integrated marine management framework (Elliott 2014 Elliott et al. 2017). Such an integrated framework is required to include the causes of the impacts from the activities and pressures in the sea, the consequences of those impacts for the natural and societal systems, including effects on ecosystem services and societal goods and benefits, the main stakeholders and the regulatory regimes, and the management responses. Importantly, it requires either modifying the ecosystem to enhance the ecology or at least providing the appropriatephysical conditions to allow recovery, that is, ecological engineering (Elliott et al. 2016).;Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) are required to cover all stages of OWF development of the area construction, operation and decommissioning. The EIA should be very precise in determining the impact of an activity, and even the removal of an activity, at a particular place and carried out at a certain time, constructed or removed in a certain way and with an agreed level of compensation and mitigation, and communicated widely (Gray  Elliott 2009). Accordingly, there are many OWFrelated EIAs covering the benthos, of which the benthossubstratum interactions are perhaps the most important aspects of the impacts from the monopile and cable routing (Franco et al. 2015).;Despite this, as shown by Franco et al. (2015), this activity and its components show that subtle changes due to the OWF are difficult to detect against the background variability and that often the windfarm operators are not obliged by the regulators to put in sufficient effort to detect subtle changes against that background variability. Furthermore, Franco et al. (2015) indicate that OWF operators may be asked unrealistically to detect changes that cannot be detected. For example, if the operators are requested by the regulators to detect a given change in the quality or quality of the benthos such as species richness, diversity, abundance and biomass, then the effort in terms of calculating the number of sample replicates should be designed, such as by using power analysis, to detect that required change. Most monitoring schemes around OWF sites do not have the statistical power to detect the required degree of change (Franco et al. 2015 Wilding et al. 2017).;The level of benthic monitoring required to detect significant effects is proportional to the degree of change expected (Gray  Elliott 2009), and the changes may be at the microscale (individual monopile), mesoscale (between monopiles within a wind farm), macroscale (at the whole windfarm scale) and megascale (between wind farms within a region). The monitoring should include the substratum type (e.g. particlesize analysis), organic