Figure 8.3 The beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) monitoring setup and postconstruction seabird survey route in the Bligh Bank study area in Belgian waters.;The numbers of seabirds observed on the water were corrected for decreasing detection probability with distance to the ship. As detection probability was further likely to depend on group size and observation conditions (Buckland et al. 2001 Marques  Buckland 2003), the following covariates were considered as explanatory variables for the speciesspecific detection functions group size, log(group size), wind force and wave height. The best detection model was selected according to the informationtheoretic approach and Akaike information criterion (AIC) characteristics. This multicovariate distance analysis thus resulted in speciesspecific detection probabilities varying with the selected covariates, and observed numbers were corrected accordingly.;For the BACI analysis, count data were aggregated for control and impact areas separately and per monitoring day, resulting in daily totals for both zones, thus avoiding autocorrelation between subsequent counts along transect lines and minimising overall variance. Only days on which both the control and impact areas were visited were used in the analysis, minimising variation resulting from shortterm temporal changes in seabird abundance. Four different distributions, namely Poisson, negative binomial, zeroinflated Poisson and zeroinflated negative binomial, were considered. Explanatory factor variables included were area (control impact), period (beforeafter), OWF (presentabsent) and fishery (presentabsent). For the last of these, only active fishing vessels observed within a distance of 3 km from the monitoring route were taken into account. To correct for varying monitoring effort, the area counted was included in the model as an offset variable. Lastly, month was used as a continuous variable to model seasonal fluctuations by fitting a cyclic smoother or cyclic sine curve, the latter described by a linear sum of sine and cosine terms (StewartOaten  Bence 2001). AIC was used to select the bestfitting model. The eventual and targeted output values were speciesspecific OWF