 Cable installation vessels of varying types may carry out any prelay works such as jetting or grapnel run, as well as the installation of the interarray and export cables. Theinstallation operation often requires the laying of several sections of cable that are then jointed together. Prelay and installation operations may be carried out by the same vessel or by several vessels with different capabilities.; Offshore platform installation vessels responsible for transporting and lifting the offshore substation platform, transformers and associated infrastructure into position. Often also jackup vessels, they must be capable of transporting and lifting extremely heavy loads with precision.  Turbine installation vessels are required to lift the tower and hub into place once the supporting foundation is in place and may be the same vessel as that used to install the foundations.;Once the wind farm has been installed and fully commissioned, the activity on site changes from construction to OM. This usually requires far smaller vessels than construction, unless largescale works such as major component exchanges are required, although this is relatively infrequent. Crew transfer vessels (CTVs) will usually transfer up to 12 technicians from the port to the OWF to undertake general maintenance of the structures. Depending on the size of the site, the wind farm may require several CTVs and occasionally other vessels for routine operations.;Advances in the understanding of environmental issues associated with offshore wind began to be translated into a growing body of environmental legislation in the 1960s and 1970s. Since then, this body has become vast and a comprehensive guide to all relevant global environmental protection legislation with relevance to offshore wind is not possible in this chapter. Rather, the focus here is on key global agreements and examples of how nature conservation and environmental assessment obligations are delivered on a regional or national scale.