Indirect effects are likely to be most prominent on softsediment communities. For example, turbine foundations change local currents (Leonhard et al. 2006 Rees  Judd, Chapter 2), whichinfluence the prevailing currents, leading to smallscale alterations of the spatial distribution of erosion and deposition and hence sediment composition (Gill 2005 Leonhard et al. 2006 Vaissire et al. 2014). Such changes alter the softsediment community composition and distribution (Coates et al. 2014 de Backer et al. 2014), with typical finesandy communities found close to the turbine monopile and adjacent to the scour protection. In particular, it is expected that with any structure in place, the local environment will adjust to the new hydrographic conditions and so the substrata and biota will adjust accordingly. This, therefore, creates a new equilibrium. With the removal of that structure, it is unknown whether the original equilibrium will be recreated even if marine systems have an ability to regain that structure (Elliott et al. 2007). The latter effect, however, is difficult to distinguish from the effect of biodeposition of organic matter from the windturbine epifauna, which locally enhances softsediment macrofaunal abundance and biomass (Coates et al. 2014).;The cessation of fisheries activities inside OWF arrays further contributes to the development of the softsediment communities surrounding the wind turbines in the absence of trawling disturbance. One example of the fisheries cessation effects is the Sabellaria spinulosa reefs associated with the Thanet OWF in eastern England. During construction and turbine installation, precision mapping and micrositing were employed to ensure minimal damage to the biogenic reefs within the windfarm footprint of 35 km2, and following construction, the reefs recovered and expanded in extent (Pearce et al. 2014). Such reefs are listed under Annex I of the European Union (EU) Habitats Directive as a marine habitat to be protected by designation of Special Areas of Conservation (SACs). The natural construction of intertwined dwelling tubes by Sabellaria and similar reefbuilding species creates stable habitat for associated species, allowing epibenthic and crevice faunal communities to become established (Hendrick  FosterSmith 2006) and thereby increasing biodiversity between the windfarm structures.