Critically, future research efforts need to be scaled from individual or a few turbines to entire OWFs and across several OWFs at a cumulative scale to measure ecosystem change, as any effects could be more relevant or pronounced than the summarised effects of individual turbines. An ecosystembased perspective across fish distributional ranges is thought necessary to provide the knowledge at a scale relevant to both the management of marine systems and the fish themselves (Lindeboom et al. 2015). Ecosystem change is a difficult topic to address, but that should not be a reason to shy away from it. In fact, legislative existing environmental drivers, including the Marine Strategy Framework Directive in Europe, require the ecosystem approach to be applied for appropriate monitoring and management of the marine environment. Placing any changes observed within such an ecosystem context provides a clear picture of knowledge gaps, which can subsequently be filled by targeted research (Lindeboom et al. 2015). Furthermore, taking an ecosystem view conveys the need to take into account causeandeffect pathways and the processes that cause or are predicted to cause changes to the ecosystem components. It is these effects which, if large enough and at a scale relevant to the species being studied, will be deemed to be significant and become impacts (sensu Wilding et al. 2017).;In conclusion, the overall question of whether OWFs are ecologically beneficial for fish remains open to debate. However, there is a requirement to consider this question because of existing local, regional and international legislation. But, rather than looking at the conflicts, perhaps a more productive, diversified and collaborative route should embrace the notion that OWFs are in general a good thing in the context of combating the global issue of fossil fuels contributing to climate change, while acknowledging that they will change the local environment and hence the fish community. This is with the caveat that we should try to improve our understanding of the ecological relevance of these changes and how they occur through targeted research and monitoring, and then consider alternatives. As OWFs have already been installed and new developments are being planned and constructed around the world, there is an opportunity for collaborative research efforts at the required ecosystem scale.