A final note on nonEU countries is reserved for the, soon to be exEU, UK. At this time, an EU Withdrawal Bill is being debated by the UK Government and it is not yet clear how exactly the UK will extricate itself from the jurisdiction of European law. It is likely that a large body of existing legislation will be transferred directly to UK domestic law, as this is most straightforward approach, and would result in little discernible change to current consenting regimes, at least in the short term. However, from the formal Brexit date onwards, the UK will no longer be obliged to comply with EU requirements. Within the arena of environmental regulation, there has been concern that independent administration of neighbouring countries can have a detrimental effect on the assessment and management of environmental impacts, especially given that environmental stressors such as noise and emissions to air and water, as well as the receptors they affect, such as water masses,birds and marine mammals, do not respect national boundaries.;Planning approaches to consenting to offshore wind projects and the regulatory agencies involved differ between nations. In European countries where offshore deployment has matured, the regulatory systems of governance share common ground in adopting European legislation for the protection of wildlife and climate change abatement through binding renewable energy targets.;The task of defining and assessing an individual project may lie with a governmental body or fall to the developer, depending on the consenting framework in place in that particular country. Under a public tender process, the government is responsible for delivering an EIA and obtaining consents. Once this is complete, developers are invited to tender for the site and attempt to define an optimal project design, or design options, while selling themselves as the best party to deliver it. Denmark is an example of such a system, as is the Netherlands.;The public tender process is advantageous for the developer as it carries less risk in that the onus is on the government to deliver early development and obtain consent, and the cost of the EIA will only be payable if the bid is successful. In developerfocused systems such as that in the UK, the risk and preconsent cost are shifted on to the developer, who must conduct all environmental assessments and early engineering work when there is no guarantee of a consented project or CfD subsidy award at the end of it (see the next theme, Consenting process and issues).