However, no studies have managed to separate the effects of vessels from other activities such as noisy construction or the presence of the operational turbines, although vessels in isolation are known to be disruptive for some birds such as divers (Gavia spp.) and seaduck such as scoters (Melanitta spp.), which often flushseveral hundred metres away. Similarly, the general impression is that Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena, unlike seals and bow riding dolphins, tend to avoid vessels, and in the case of the Dutch wind farm Egmond aan Zee, the activity of Harbour Porpoise increased significantly inside the operational site relative to baseline conditions, which Scheidat et al. (2011) suggested was consistent with a refuge effect from nearby shipping lanes. Prey aggregation around turbine bases may also have been a factor, however (see Colonisation and attraction, below).;For marine mammals, construction noise, particularly in relation to pile driving, is the principal cause of disturbance and displacement (Nehls et al., Chapter 6). Brandt et al. (2018) provide a neat summary of events for the first seven wind farms installed in the German Bight between 2010 and 2013. Here, declines in the number of detections of Harbour Porpoise were observed during piling exceeding 143 dB re 1 Pa2 s (see Nehls et al., Chapter 6 for an explanation of terminology) at up to 14 km distant, even using noise mitigation systems (17 km away without such systems). Without noise mitigation, declines of up to 50 were recorded at 1015 km, with this reduced to an average of 17 where noise mitigation was applied. In all cases, however, porpoise detections declined at up to 2 km or so from the construction site for several hours before piling commenced, suggesting that the commotion of vessels and human activity was also a disturbing factor in the near field. At this distance, detections were reduced for 12 days after piling. Farther away, an effect was noted only during piling.;It is of note that while noise mitigation systems are routinely applied in Germany, they are not in the UK, where rampup procedures are used to encourage animals to disperse away from the construction area. Relatively few sites have also included specific monitoring of the response of marine mammals (MMO 2014). Results from Sheringham Shoal may be indicative of a general pattern, however. Here, boatbased surveys were conducted over 9 years, with 3 years of data before, during and after construction. This enabled a comparison of relative densities of animals incorporating distancesampling corrections where possible, in the wind farm and 02 km buffer. Only data from the summer months, when most of the construction was undertaken and survey