Finally, safety issues and the legal requirement in some countries to create safety buffer zones around individual monopiles are likely to prevent active demersal, benthic and pelagic trawling within the windfarm array (e.g. Lindeboom et al. 2011). Given that seabed trawling is recognised as a major stressor on the seabed (Hall 1999 Kaiser et al. 2006), the cessation of trawling causes two major changes to the benthic foodweb structure (1) the absence of physical sediment disturbance caused by fishing gear and (2) the absence of fisheriesgenerated additional food sources, such as gear induced mortality and discards (Dannheim 2007). The absence of physical disturbance changes the biogeochemistry of the sediment, which particularly affects the occurrence of deposit feeders and increases the settlement of small tubebuilding deposit or interface feeders such as spionid worms like Spiophanes bombyx (Krncke et al. 2004 Wieking  Krncke 2005 Dannheim et al. 2014). Large mobile generalists, including starfish such as Asterias rubens or swimming crabs such as Liocarcinus holsatus, generally profit from the comparably high trophic level food generated by fisheries in the form of gearinduced mortality and discards. Trawling primarily causes mortality of benthic organisms, but many survivors such as mobile predators and scavengers profit from the geargenerated food items (Groenewold  Fonds 2000 Rumohr  Kujawski 2000). Such species may thus actively migrate from nontrawled to trawled areas (Dannheim et al. 2014). At the same time, the missingpredation may increase the abundance within the windfarm area of large mobile species, such as predatory and scavenging decapods, which could subsequently increase the predation pressure on the soft and hardbottom species. In some wind farms, such as Sheringham Shoal in the UK, there are intensive pot fisheries of crabs and lobsters, the occurrence of which is favoured by the installation of rock scour protection, which may again reduce the number of large mobile predators.;Although marine mammals are a subject of another chapter within this publication (Nehls et al., Chapter 6), tracking of seals has shown individuals visiting individual turbines within an OWF, as well as following the routes of subsea pipelines (Russell et al. 2014), suggesting the use of wind farms for foraging. The presence of toplevel predators such as these requires established and supporting benthic communities and suggests that wind farms are acting as hotspots where species such as seals can find enhanced foraging opportunities.;A wind farm reaches the end of its operational life (2030 years) when it can no longer function properly or satisfy the expectations of its user (Ortegon et al. 2013). At this point, it can be either repowered, whereby existing foundations are repurposed to hold a longer monopile and more powerful turbine and blade system following technological advances in the intervening time, or decommissioned, whereby some or all of the physical structures are removed and the environment is returned to a more natural state.;At the time of writing in 2018, owing to offshore wind being a relatively new industry, only the earliest built Dong wind farm at Vindeby off the Danish island of Lolland and the Vattenfall wind farm at Yttre Stengrund, Sweden, have been decommissioned, in 2017 and 2016, respectively. Hence, cases from the offshore oil and gas industries provide a more studied, yet similar, starting point for assessing the potential consequences of decommissioning (Smyth et al. 2015). Here, the removal of the upper structure is required but the bed structures such as pipelines and mattress seabed protection can be left in place to prevent greater damage to the seabed (Kaiser