Common Guillemot, Razorbill and unidentified auks in general are another set of species (group) for which there is goodconsistency in displacement classification. Seventeen studies were inspected, three of which concluded indifference, whereas all the others illustrated avoidance of the wind farm under study. The resulting displacement score for the species group as a whole equals 1.5, with a score of 1.4 for Razorbill and 1.9 for Common Guillemot. Being common species with relatively homogeneously distributed numbers compared to gulls, for example, the changes in distribution and numbers reached significance quite often, even for moderate avoidance levels. Neither of the species or the generic group appeared to avoid wind farms completely, although generally high levels of change in abundance were found, such as a 75 reduction at Alpha Ventus (unidentified auks), 75 at Bligh Bank (Common Guillemot) and 80 at PAWP (Razorbill) (Leopold et al. 2013 Welcker  Nehls 2016 Vanermen et al. 2016). On the other hand, there is quite convincing evidence that in some places Common Guillemot did not avoid the OWF under study, as was the case for the Robin Rigg OWF (Vallejo et al. 2017). The lack of avoidance of Robin Rigg mainly involves breeding birds, in contrast to the nonbreeding (dispersing andor wintering) birds at all other sites, which are likely to be less constrained to use specific foraging areas and possibly more readily displaced.;Common Scoter reached a score of 1.8 based on five different postconstruction studies, three of which reported strong avoidance with the other two showing indifference. At Tun Knob, it was concluded that the changes in numbers and distribution of Common Scoter could not be attributed to the presence of the OWF and were more likely to be related to changes in food abundance (Guillemette et al. 1998 1999). At Horns Rev 1, Common Scoters appeared to avoid the wind farm in the first 3 years after construction, but were found to occur in equal numbers in and outside the wind farm in 2007. Scoters did, however, appear to be displaced from the Nysted, Horns Rev 2 and OWEZ wind farms (Petersen et al. 2006 2014 Petersen  Fox 2007 Leopold et al. 2013).