Figure 8.11 Adult Common Guillemot Uria aalge with its chick at the colony. During the breeding season, seabirds become centralplace foragers andmay be particularly vulnerable to offshore wind farm impact. (Martin Perrow);The quantitative translation of a displacement effect into its ultimate impact in terms of reproductive success or chances of survival is highly challenging (Fox et al. 2006). Empirical evidence is needed to build reliable population models to estimate the impact of OWF displacement, but crucial parameters often lack such evidence (Green et al. 2016). In the case of seabirds, mechanisms of density dependence, for example, are poorly understood. Consequently, these mechanisms are either ignored in impact assessments or incorporated in a compensatory form that has little empirical validation. Compensatory density dependence is considered to offset a loss of individuals through increased recruitment of nonbreeding adults or a lower age of first breeding (Horswill et al. 2016). The potential biological removal (PBR) approach that has been widely used in OWF impact assessments (OBrien et al. 2017) implicitly assumes such compensatory density dependence. PBR is defined as the additional mortality that a population can theoretically sustain without causing its extinction. It ignores the fact that compensatory mechanisms may not be strong enough to offset the additive loss of individuals, or even worse, that density dependence might be depensatory. Depensation implies a decrease in survival andor productivity rates as population size decreases, and thus a potential acceleration of population decline. Evidence of depensatory mechanisms has been found for several seabird species, such as terns, small gull species and auks (Horswill et al. 2016), and may result from the reduced prospect of colony defence from predators as the numbers of defenders reduces while the proportion of birds on the edge of the colony increases. OBrien et al. (2017) indeed showed that an annual removal of a PBRderived harvest from a seabird population may be unsustainable over a 25year projection, especially when populations were already in decline. The authors argue that a PBR approach is therefore unfit for use in Environmental Impact Assessments, while it can be useful for other purposes.