 Suction bucketcaisson. This cylindrical steel bucketshaped structure is upturned so the open end is facing down. The suction bucket is only suitable for use on soft sediments and is a relatively new foundation type for offshore wind, but has been used extensively in the oil and gas industry. The installation process involves the steel bucket being placed on the seabed with the use of pumps, to pump the water out of the bucket, lowering the pressure inside the bucket causing the foundation to sink into the seafloor. This process does not require the use of piledriving hammers and therefore will not emit noise from piling activities. Vattenfalls European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, located in Aberdeen Bay and under construction at the time of writing, is deploying an innovative new foundation concept involving a jacket structure secured by suction caisson anchoring, negating the need for any piling operations at all during installation.  Floating. Floating offshore wind technology is rapidly gaining commercial viability and is expected to become more common within the next few decades as interest increases in developing offshore wind projects in deeper waters. Although there are over 30 floating wind concepts under development at the timeof writing, each with its own strengths and weaknesses depending on the country and conditions within which they are being deployed, it is expected that those concepts reaching full commercialisation will be relatively few. Most floating wind foundation designs fall into the following categories semi submersibles, sparbuoys, tensionleg platforms, multiturbine platforms and hybrid windwave devices.;The typical sequence of installation will see the foundation installed first, followed by the transition piece, then the tower and finally the turbine hub comprising nacelle and blades. The transition piece is a cylindrical steel tube placed over the top of a foundation and sealed into place to provide a connection between the foundation and the turbine base. Installation vessels will have to be capable of not only transporting the weight of constituent parts to site before installation, but also lifting and positioning the various components into place with precision (Figure 1.8). In some locations, turbulence caused by placing a solid structure into the seabed can result in erosion of sediments at the interface between the foundation and seabed surface, known as scour (Rees  Judd, Chapter 2). To protect the structure from becoming unstable, scour protection, typically in the form of rock or concrete mattresses, may be introduced.