It can be speculated that for birds the risk of collision with offshore wind turbines is greater at night. During the day, migrating birds generally appear to avoid crossing through OWFs (see above), thereby limiting collision risk. Waterfowl, such as ducks and geese, appear to avoid collisions at night by increasing their flight distancefrom the turbines and flying in the corridors between turbines (Desholm  Kahlert 2005). However, very little is known about the behaviour of passerines, or their subsequent risk of collision, at offshore wind turbines (see Do offshore wind farms act as barriers? above). Since most passerine species mainly migrate at night, they are theoretically more vulnerable to collision than diurnally active birds (Hppop et al. 2006).;Illuminated structures exhibit a particular attraction to night migrating songbirds on land (Ballasus et al. 2009 Haupt 2009 Longcore et al. 2008 2012 de Lucas  Perrow 2017) as well as at sea (Hppop et al. 2006 Poot et al. 2008 Hppop  Hilgerloh 2012). In combination with adverse weather conditions, illuminated structures could account for a major cause of mortality for birds migrating over the sea (Hill et al. 2014b Hppop et al. 2016). Fatality numbers are much higher at turbines in brightly illuminated regions or in migration bottleneck areas such as the Eemshaven area at the utmost Dutch North Sea coast (Brenninkmeijer  Klop 2017) although, in contrast, Kerlinger et al. (2010) detected no significant differences between fatality rates at onshore turbines with flight safety lights and at turbines without lighting. Whereas onshore turbines generally only have flashing red lights, for aviation safety, offshore turbines in some countries must also have bright, steady lights for shipping safety. Since these steady lights attract nocturnal migrants more than flashing ones, one might expect the collision risk for passerines to be considerably higher at offshore turbines than at onshore ones, especially under deteriorating weather conditions when birds are seeking refuge (Hppop et al. 2016). Since terrestrial birds sometimes follow even tiny structures before flying out to sea (Hppop et al. 2004), nearshore wind farms may act as guidelines, and as such attract birds and increase the risk of collision.;Besides direct collision, another potentially dangerous factor for birds and bats flying close to the turbines may be wind wakes of spinning blades (Fox et al. 2006 Kikuchi 2008 Baerwald et al. 2008 Barclay et al. 2017a). These effects are, however, difficult to estimate since they cannot be easily observed directly at night, and offshore, carcasses are difficult to sample for the analysis of proximate mortality causes. In summary, the effects of adverse