Finally, individual habitat use coupled with individual behaviour may increase the risk of collision (Cleasby et al. 2015 Thaxter et al. 2015 2018). In the study by Thaxter et al. (2015), the use of proposed, consented and operational wind farms by Lesser Blackbacked Gulls varied between years and reproductive state, with little use during incubation and greater use in the early chick provisioning period, and males making significantly more use of windfarm areas compared to females on top of individual differences. However, judging from the spatial use maps, little use was actually made of operational sites, and it will be interesting to see how this changes as more sites become operational. Moreover, the propensity for risky behaviour within wind farms may increase as the breeding season unfolds and the pressure on adult seabirds to provision chicks increases. Much clearly remains to be learned about the nature of bird collision with turbines. For bats, even more needs to be understood.;In the UK at least, indirect or foodweb effects are generally not included in EIA, although with some exceptions, notably in the Greater Wash (for example SCIRA Offshore Energy 2006). For birds in particular, this is in keeping with the notion that the principal effects are limited to (1) collision, (2) displacement, and (3) barrier effects (MMO 2014), even though (3) is really a subset of (2). In contrast, the review of windfarm effects on birds by Gove et al. (2013) included indirect impacts as well as habitat loss or damage as effects. Unfortunately, the section on OWFs in this review missed what appears to be the only published study of an indirect effect of a wind farm on a seabird through its fish prey (Perrow et al. 2011a). This study was the subject of the apposite comment from Furness et al. (2013, p64) complex and indirect effects such as alteration of fish and benthic invertebrate prey abundance by wind farms is something that is extremely difficult to predict, so caution is needed in interpretations and collecting post construction data will be important.