The physical presence of turbine bases and associated structure such as scour protection, coupled with other OWF infrastructure such as substations (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1), has a range of effects upon coastal processes including changes in water flow and sediment transport (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2) as a result of the presence of the structures themselves and any altered seabed topography. Moreover, changes in atmospheric conditions and air pressure above the sea surface are predicted to lead to significant changes in ocean dynamics, including upwelling of nutrients affecting biological productivity (see Brostrm, Chapter 3). However, little is yet known of these potential effects compared to the change in plant and animal communities resulting from the rapid colonisation of those structures present producing the so called reef effect (Leonhard et al. 2006 Petersen  Malm 2006 Linley et al. 2007). The initial colonisation of species within lower trophic levels is quickly followed by larger invertebrates such as crabs and lobsters and small fish, thereby attracting larger predatory fish (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) and potentially top predators such as marine mammals or seabirds (see Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). In some cases,however, windfarm structures have been shown to have a limited effect on fish aggregations relative to seasonal changes or weather conditions (van Hal et al. 2017).;In some countries, such as Germany and Denmark, commercial fishing is banned from wind farms, although this is not the case in others such as the UK and now the Netherlands, where it was formerly not allowed (Lindeboom et al. 2011). Nevertheless, some fisheries may be limited owing to safety restrictions or simply because of difficulties using specific gear within the confines of a wind farm. Where fishing is excluded or significantly reduced, the abundance of fish within a farm may be expected to increase as a result of reduced mortality rates of target species and bycatch (Stenberg et al. 2011 Lindeboom et al. 2011 Wilhelmsson  Langhamer 2014). However, outside the wind farm, the benefits of such refuges, including spillover effects to adjacent areas, are more uncertain (Gell  Roberts 2003).;As with other factors, the ability of wind farms to act as reefs or refuges will depend on a wide variety of sitespecific circumstances and it is most likely that such effects will be strongly influenced by the size of the windfarm areas. The potential for wind farms to operate as reefs and refuges for different groups of marine mammals, specifically Harbour Porpoise and seals, are reviewed below. This recognises that any effect may be greater in larger windfarm areas and may thus become more prominent in the future.;Rather few published studies have analysed whether porpoises occur in higher or lower numbers within operational OWFs. In 2005 and 2006, Diederichs et al. (2008) investigated the presence of Harbour Porpoises in the Danish OWFs of Horns Rev 1 and Nysted 1 by passive acoustic measurements using TPODs. No differences inside and outside either wind farm could be detected. Moreover, in Horns Rev, no difference between porpoise detections at different distances from single turbines could be found and this wind farm did not seem to influence the presence of Harbour Porpoises at all. In comparison, at Nysted, only a weak effect was found between