Any structure in the marine environment has the potential to become an artificial reef through colonisation by marine biota (Wilson  Elliott 2009 Wilson et al. 2010), and will inevitably create different andor additional habitat to that originally present. Although the footprint of a typical turbine foundation is estimated at less than 1 of the windfarm area (Petersen  Malm 2006) and despite turbine foundations and scour protection removing the underlying infaunal habitat, the monopile and scour protection with which it is replaced can create 2.5 times the amount of area that was lost (Wilson  Elliott 2009). For example, in the German Bight, the surface of a hard foundation similar to a wind turbine base (1,280 m) was covered by an average of 4.3 t marine organism biomass and contained 35 times more macrozoobenthic biomass than the same area of soft bottom in the German Exclusive Economic Zone (0.12 kgm2) (Krone et al. 2013a). This introduction of a hard structure with (potentially) more or different biomass than the surrounding habitat type is known as the reef effect. In addition, during the operational phase, OWFs are generallyaccompanied by the cessation of bedmodifying activities such as trawling eliminating both physical disturbance and the removal of larger predators such as fish and macrocrustaceans. This combination of effects results in the creation of de facto protected areas, which can become hotspots for biodiversity (Box 4.1). Here, a biodiversity hotspot is defined as an area of high species and habitat richness that includes representative, rare or threatened features (Hiscock  Breckels 2007). Naturally, any further benefits still need to be quantified, such as the increased productivity of reefs overspilling into the wider areas or even increased fish feeding in the wider area with repercussions for fisheries.;Given that offshore wind farms (OWFs) have the potential to act as biodiversity hotspots for benthic communities and thereby for associated food chains all the way up to large mammal predators, the opportunity to build on this must also be considered, together with colocation with protected areas for the conservation of both habitats and species. Colocation, as a means of siting two or more marine activities together but without adverse environmental effects (Christie et al. 2014), may give benefits. Examples include linking OWFs with conservation areas, aquaculture or nontrawling methods of fishing. In turn, these could even be used for habitat creation and biodiversity enhancement, such as the renewablestoreefs option in following the rigstoreefs approach in the USA (Coates et al. 2013 Smyth et al. 2015), or with ecological engineering principles used to design future wind farms, and other offshore structures, in a way that provides enhanced opportunities for colonisation by biota.