In contrast to marine mammals, the response of fish to pile driving has been poorly studied and the impacts generally remain unquantified (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). In general, fish that possess organs to detect sound pressure are able to hear sounds in the range of 10500 Hz (Slabbekoorn et al. 2010) and appear to be affected by construction noise. Some species, such as clupeids, with an anatomical link between their swim bladders and hearing apparatus, are particularly sensitive (Thomsen et al. 2006). Others, such as sandeels, without a swimbladder, appear to be less sensitive. The typical behavioural response may be simply to swim away from the noise source, but if this does not occur rapidly enough, then in extreme cases high exposure levels can lead todeath as a result of the rupture of the swimbladder and other organs or internal bleeding. The author has personal experience of attending wind farms sites during or immediately after piling activity and recording large aggregations of birds, particularly gulls, Northern Gannet Morus bassanus and Sandwich Tern, seemingly attracted by injured or disorientated fish. The frequency of such events and the potential for impact upon populations remains unquantified, although it is clear from the events at Scroby Sands in relation to a local spawning population of Atlantic Herring Clupea harengus (see Foodweb and indirect effects, below) that any effects should not always be assumed to be negligible. The results of current studies of Atlantic Cod Gadus morhua in Belgian waters according to construction activity (see van der Knaap  Reubens, Volume 4, Chapter 1) are eagerly awaited, although further work, especially on the small schooling species that comprise the prey base for many seabirds and marine mammals, is also badly needed.;In relation to seabirds, little consideration has generally been given to the effects of noise. However, a study of breeding African Penguins Spheniscus demersus showed that these birds avoided preferred foraging grounds during seismic activity (Pichegru et al. 2017). It therefore seems likely that noisy pile driving may have some adverse effect on the distribution and abundance of swimming and diving species that forage underwater, such as auks, divers and cormorants, where these are exposed.;Overall, there has been rather little research on the impacts of construction upon seabirds, partly as several key studies in European waters, such as those by Lindeboom et al. (2011), Leopold et al. (2013) and Vanermen et al. (2015a 2015b), were unable to monitor during the construction phase. In contrast, there has been no restriction on monitoring during construction at some sites in the UK. At Sheringham Shoal, displacement of passing and wintering Razorbill Alca torda began during the initial construction phase (Figure 10.2 and Figure 10.3), affecting not only the site, but also the nearby control and buffer (to 4 km) areas (Figure 10.3). Thereafter, while there was no obvious recovery within the site, including into the operational period, numbers of birds recovered both in the control area and in the buffer areas, especially at 24 km from the site (Figure 10.3). The pattern at Sheringham Shoal