An overview of empirical evidence of seabird displacement from 16 monitoring studies conducted in European waters, including the North, Baltic and Irish Seas, classified all studied species based on the reported displacement responses in terms of abundance or distribution changes. Four species (groups) occupying several ecological niches that were studied in at least seven monitoringprogrammes showed a relatively consistent avoidance of turbine built areas. These included divers and the alcid auks, Common Guillemot and Razorbill, which are all piscivorous diving species, and the largebodied, piscivorous Northern Gannet that forages on the wing and typically plungedives from height. As not all studies could actually detect displacement of these species, the results were not unanimous. In contrast, Great Cormorants and Great Black backed Gulls appeared to be attracted to OWFs, but again some studies failed to detect a corresponding change in abundance or distribution. These species are ecologically different, with one (Great Cormorant) a diving piscivorous species and the other (Great Blackbacked Gull) a generalist predator and scavenger, although both may respond to foraging opportunities within wind farms. Common Eider, a diving seaduck specialising on benthic invertebrate prey, was the only species for which a consistent indifferent behaviour was found in all (three) included studies. Lastly, a number of species, mainly gulls, showed high inconsistency in their response. In the case of gulls, their tendency to aggregate in large numbers, especially in the vicinity of trawling activity, appears to be a key factor in this inconsistent response.;The overall variation in observed displacement levels is hypothesised to be due to multiple factors, such as habitat quality, prey distribution, windfarm location relative to the colony andor feeding grounds, and windfarm configuration. Speciesspecific displacement responses are further suspected to vary with the different stages in the species annual life cycle, including breeding, nonbreeding and dispersalmigration periods. Unfortunately, there are few empirical data supporting these hypotheses. Yet, a thorough understanding of the ecological drivers affecting seabird displacement levels is considered crucial for a reliable impact assessment of single planned windfarm projects and cumulative impact assessments in particular, highlighting the need for wide scale and longterm monitoring research, applying standardised methods for data collection and analysis.;A displacement effect should not be considered synonymous with an impact (Masden et al. 2010a). But knowledge of a bird species response towards OWFs is clearly an indispensable prerequisite ultimately to assess the resulting ecological