However, there is little prospect of detecting effects where monitoring is not conducted in an integrated manner across trophiclevels. The review of monitoring in the UK by the Marine Management Organisation (MMO 2014) revealed that up to that point, monitoring had tended to be undertaken on a casebycase basis and more or less specifically on birds, benthos and fish. For birds, this is in keeping with this group often being the focus of EIA andor HRA. The additional focus on the benthos is less clear considering that negative effects are generally not predicted in EIA, although a few benthic studies did attempt to link with monitoring of benthicfeeding birds, specifically Common Scoters. In contrast, while fish were often monitored, this was almost invariably linked to benthic or benthopelagic species with the use of small beam trawls. Although some sites were concerned with possible effects on spawning clupeids, sampling of functionally important pelagic forage fish Alpha Ventus was not undertaken and linked to the abundance of seabirds or marine mammals in the manner of Certain et al. (2011). At Alpha Ventus, Krgesky (2014) demonstrated that sampling pelagic fish may be achieved using hydroacoustic methods supported by pelagic trawls. Admittedly, the integrated sampling of seabirds and their prey is not easy, and it may be more efficacious to sample oceanographic variables that account for the abundance of fish and link these to the distribution of seabirds and marine mammals (Scott et al. 2010), rather than sample fish themselves. Overall, by the time of the MMO (2014) overview report, few studies had been completed with fully analysed results, with others suffering from issues of survey design and analyses. Thus, few conclusions on the success of monitoring and lessons learned could be reached, thereby providing no impetus to further understand indirect and foodweb effects.;Elsewhere in European waters, and specifically at demonstration sites such as Alpha Ventus (BSH  BMU 2014) in Germany and Egmond aan Zee (Lindeboom et al. 2011) in the Netherlands, where a range of trophic levels were monitored, it is clear that indirect and foodweb effects are highly likely to occur as a result of wind farm installation. For example, Lindeboom et al. (2011) reported that within 2 years, the site was operating as a new type of habitat with a higher biodiversity of benthic organisms, with a possible increased use of the area by benthic invertebrates, fish, marine mammals and some bird species, and a decrease in use by several