This review of published and unpublished information demonstrates that offshore wind farms (OWFs) have major effects on the benthos that is, the seabed flora and fauna. By adding artificial hard substrata to the marine ecosystem, OWFs create new habitat for colonising benthic species, allowing attachment and attraction of hardsubstratum species, in the artificial reef effect. The general exclusion of fisheries further creates flourishing softsediment benthic communities. Although wind farms hardly extend the distribution range of hardsubstratum species, they may be stepping stones for nonindigenous species. Such an increase in benthic diversity, however, is countered by the loss of, disturbance to and or alteration of the natural seabed. Despite this, it may be concluded that OWFs create local hotspots of benthic diversity, directly influencing the local marine food web. During construction, the biomass of forage species decreases, affecting predatory and scavenging species negatively and positively, respectively. Mobile predatory species tend to leave the area during construction. Once installed, the flourishing benthic communities greatly increase in benthic foraging species and attract predators. The surrounding natural sediments are affected by the deposition of organic matter from the epibionts on the turbine monopoles and scour protection and by the altered predator community. Given that a new ecological equilibrium in the benthic system will develop over 2030 years, it is arguable whether a return to the preconstruction state followingfull decommissioning would be feasible or desirable. In contrast, a renewablestoreefs decommissioning scheme involving only partial removal of the wind farm could ensure protection for ecologically valuable sites. While many data already exist, it is difficult to detect significant effects because these are proportional to the degree of change and the changes may take place at different spatial scales. This should be taken into account in OWF monitoring.;Benthic communities are of significant ecological and socio economic importance at a global level. This includes acting as habitat for numerous species at all lifecycle stages, and as a feeding ground for a range of predators. From a socioeconomic perspective, these predators can include species of commercial importance. Benthic communities operate both directly and indirectly as food resources for such species. Therefore, the study of the benthic environment around any activity in the marine environment, including offshore renewable energy, is vital to identify potential effects and their significance.;All human activities in the marine environment have the potential, by their very nature, to affect its natural structure and functioning. Because of both the direct effects on the seabed and the intimate links between the water column and benthos (Gray  Elliott 2009), the seabed will always be directly or indirectly affected. The effects of offshore wind farms (OWFs) on seabed communities comprise one of the most important elements when considering the potential impacts of such developments, due to the inevitability of effects arising, especially from monopiles bored into the substratum or gravity bases supported on the seabed, their surrounding erosion protection layer and the installation of cable routes (Wilson et al. 2010) (Figure 4.1). Even developments in floating wind technology still require anchor points and the connection of associated infrastructure, such as interarray and export cables (e.g. Butterfield et al. 2005 Statoil ASA 2017 see Chapter 1 in this volume). Therefore, an understanding of the ways