Increased productivity will lead to an increase in fish production that would be of benefit to the fishing industry as well as attracting and supporting various birds, larger fish and marine mammals. Thus, wind farms may produce areas with rich and diverse marine life (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4  Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) exploited by top predators (Nehls et al., Chapter 6 Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). However, a highly productive windfarm area may have some disbenefits, such as the attraction of seabirds to the site (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8) and the potential for more birdblade collisions (King, Chapter 9). In addition, increased primary production could carry a price in the form of eutrophication and the potential for toxic algal blooms and increased areas with low oxygen levels near the seabed, althoughthis would depend heavily on natural water circulation and tidal currents. Furthermore, as already mentioned, the natural cycle of the North Sea is characterised by a spring bloom and lower summer productivity the latter may be affected by relatively constant upwelling, with important ecological consequences.;Natural pathways of transport, both locally and at some distance from the wind farm, may also be disturbed. The fact that a dipole structure is created may imply that the disturbance will move away from the area where it is generated and be manifested as a farfield effect, which has not yet been demonstrated for coastal processes (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2). In addition, if the dipole interacts with local and largescale topography, some disturbance in the transport pathways may result, thereby affecting connectivity between different areas, with implications for the transport of invertebrate and fish larvae and the patterns of colonisation, for example. More studies are clearly required before accurate predictions of the positive and negative consequences on marine life can be made.;Besides the impact of the windwake effect on ocean dynamics, the presence of the turbine bases and monopoles will also have direct effects on the local current and wave fields (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2) and indirect effects by operating as artificial reefs (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). In agreement with Rees and Judd (Chapter 2), the authors think it unlikely that turbines and thus wind farms will have a large impact on the largescale ocean currents, although one should not rule out the potential for farfield effects. In contrast, nearfield effects are likely, with increased turbulence levels leading to sediment resuspension, as clearly shown as visible tracks from turbine foundations on satellite images from the London Array and Thanet wind farms (Vanhellemont  Ruddick 2014  the former of which was until recently the largest OWF in the world (Jameson et al., Chapter 1). Together with the altered current field created by the wake, it is likely that sedimentation in and around the windfarm area will be altered (Rees  Judd, Chapter 2).