This chapter considers the effect of offshore wind farms (OWFs) on the atmosphere and ocean dynamics by first outlining the basic features of ocean dynamics that underpin the oceanic response. In simple terms, OWFs extract energy from the wind, thereby decreasing wind speed and increasing turbulence levels in the lower atmosphere. The impact on the dynamics of the upper ocean is not yet well understood and is based on theoretical predictions and a single case study at the Alpha Ventus windfarm test site in German waters. Nevertheless, lower wind speed implies that the wind stress on the ocean surface becomes smaller. More importantly, the horizontal gradients in the wind stress will become artificially large, thereby creating a convergencedivergence in the winddriven (Ekman) transport. Thus, this windwake effect will create both upwelling and downwelling, with the additional possibility of relatively strong horizontal currents. Exploratory analysis shows that a wind farm of 55 km2 may induce an artificial upwelling in the order of 1 mday over an area of 200 km2 or around eight to ten times the area of the wind farm, which corresponds to a total upwelling of roughly 2,000 m3s or about 2108 m3day. Upwelling is a known driver for ocean productivity and the prediction is that OWFs may increase productivity substantially. By simply extrapolating numbers on upwelling and estimated nutrientlevels, it can be speculated that artificially induced upwelling may double the natural primary production in an area that is, say, ten to 20 times larger than the area of the wind farm. It should be noted, however, that such calculations have large uncertainties, and more studies are needed to quantify these numbers more precisely.;Offshore wind farms (OWFs) have some potential for negative impacts upon some marine fauna such as marine mammals (see Nehls et al., Chapter 6) and seabirds (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8 King, Chapter 9), while generating positive reef and refuge effects benefiting seabed communities (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4), fish (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5), and perhaps some marine mammals (Nehls et al., Chapter 6) and birds (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). Some localised effects on the wider environment through coastal processes are predicted (Rees  Judd, Chapter 2), but otherwise the generation of offshore wind power is generally considered to be environmentally benign. Since wind energy is extracted from the atmosphere, it follows that the wind energy in the atmosphere decreases that is, the wind slows down. In addition, the disturbance of the wind field by turbines will create higher turbulence levels in the atmosphere. The effects of decreased wind speed and increase in the levels of turbulence are most visible at the hub level, but the wind deficit and high turbulence levels will spread both upwards and downwards as well as downwind from the turbine or the wind farm. This is an inevitable consequence of wind farms connected to the energyextraction process. Indeed, it is well known that the wake from a wind turbine stretching downwind within a wind farm will influence the efficiency of any turbines downwind (Frandsen et al. 2006 Barthelmie  Jensen 2010 Barthelmie et al. 2010). The increased turbulence levels will also influence downwind turbines as the wind becomes gustier. Not only is this an important consideration for the construction of wind farms, in order to maximise their efficiency, but also it may interact with other marine activities such as shipping and fishing.