Atmospheric lowpressure systems have a typical size in the order of 1,000 km, while the corresponding features in the ocean have characteristic scales in the order of 530 km, and are called eddies. In nature, open ocean eddies draw their energy from the largescale ocean flow through various instability mechanisms and not directly from the atmosphere. The reason for this is that direct forcing of ocean eddies from the atmosphere must derive energy from thehorizontal shear in the wind field, not the wind field itself. Given that atmospheric lowpressure systems are much larger than ocean eddies, it follows that the horizontal wind shear is weak at the scale of ocean eddies, and the direct wind forcing on the ocean eddy field is also weak. Thus, atmospheric lowpressure systems and ocean eddies are decoupled despite their dynamic similarity. However, by placing a wind farm in the ocean, a wind field that has much smaller spatial scales will be created, implying the creation of an unnatural strong direct forcing on the oceanic eddy field. In other words, a persistent forcing field is created that acts directly on the natural scales of the ocean. In simple terms, wind farms generate wind forcing with an impact on the resonance scales of the ocean and hence generate a surprisingly strong impact (Brostrm 2008 Ludewig 2013, 2015). This is sometimes called the windwake effect from wind farms. There is smallscale variability in wind at the same scale as the ocean eddies however, this is not as persistent as the windfarm wake. For more details see Box 3.2.;When wind blows over an ocean it forces an ocean current. Owing to the rotation of the earth, the upper ocean current is to the right of the wind direction in the northern hemisphere. At the surface, the current is deflected about 30 to the right and the current veers more to the right with depth, such that the total mass transport is deflected 90 to the right of the wind direction. An additional feature is that the ocean current will reach its final strength after about one inertial period, or after about 14 h at 60N.;To illustrate the calculation, a wind speed of 10 ms will create a surface current of about 0.2 ms. The total volume transport is often called the Ekman transport (M) and for a wind in the xdirection it is in the negative ydirection according to