The acoustic emissions of wind turbines are acknowledged to have an influence on fish, particularly during the construction phase of development. The noise produced has two components sound pressure and particle motion, described by particle acceleration or velocity (Hawkins  Popper 2016). Noise pressure associated with piling has been shown to have a very high peak intensity (Gill et al. 2012a) and also a lowfrequency range coverage (1 Hz to 10 kHz), comprising the sound waves that travel the farthest and in the range of detection of fish (Hawkins  Popper 2016). Hence, underwater noise is known to propagate over tens of kilometres at levels exceeding those where a significant response in fish has been shown to occur. Anecdotally, there are reports of fish mortality seen during the early OWF constructions. Limited experimental studies on the effects of pile driving on caged fish have shown physiological and behavioural effects with smallscale piling, such as that used in port building (Nedwell et al. 2006). The OWF industry tends to employ noisemitigation strategies, which significantly change the characteristics of the noise emitted, such as bubble curtains to reduce higher frequencies (Thomsen et al. 2015 Thomsen  Verfu, Volume 4, Chapter 7), and will go some way towards reducing any direct mortality, although this has not been quantified. Acoustic standards to reduce the potential for negative effects on marine fauna have been developed, but these are poorly defined and not consistent across adjacent territorial state waters, such as in the North Sea, Europe, where the majority of OWF construction is taking place (Thomsen et al. 2015 Thomsen  Verfu, Volume 4, Chapter 7).;There is no doubt that fish respond to the noise emitted by piling activity, and how the fish respond during OWF construction will depend on how far away they are from the noise source and for how long they are exposed (Figure 5.2) (Gill et al. 2012a). As sound propagates through seawater it loses energy this happens more quickly in the higher frequencies but the low frequencies can still be detected tens of kilometres away. Hence, the effect of the noise upon fish is expected to be associated with the distance at which they received the sound, with injury occurring close to the noise source and behavioural response at a distance from it (Figure 5.2). The type of species will also determine how the noise is received,