All four studies including Northern Fulmar showed strong avoidance by this species, although only one study claimed statistical significance. It is notable that these studies were conducted in Belgian and Dutch waters, where densities of Northern Fulmar are typically quite low, resulting in low confidence of theresults obtained (Leopold et al. 2013 Vanermen et al. 2016 2017). Postconstruction monitoring in marine areas where OWFs overlap with high densities of Northern Fulmar is needed to enable better and more reliable assessment of this species actual displacement response.;More species (groups) fall within the category of birds displaced by OWFs based on a mean displacement score below the value of 2.0, including Great Crested Grebe, Longtailed Duck Clangula hyemalis, Great Skua Stercorarius skua and CommonArctic Terns Sterna hirundoparadisaea. However, these displacement scores all rely on only one to three postconstruction studies and general conclusions are therefore difficult to draw.;For all but one of the gull species included within the indifferent inconsistent group, responses ranged from strong avoidance to strong attraction. European Herring Gull Larus argentatus is the most consistent, but even so shows a response ranging from moderate avoidance in one study to indifference in four studies and moderate to strong attraction in six studies. The inconsistency found for gulls is not surprising as they are often strongly aggregated, especially in the vicinity of trawling activity. Even when present, whether or not large aggregations of gulls are encountered during standard monitoring procedures is largely coincidental, while the inclusion or exclusion of such large numbers in an impact study data set may strongly influence the eventual outcome.;Petersen et al. (2006) found numbers of Redbreasted Merganser Mergus serrator to increase strongly in and up to a distance of 3.5 km around Nysted OWF. At the Lillgrund OWF, however, built in an area hosting a wintering population of over 10,000 birds, the distribution of Redbreasted Merganser displayed moderate avoidance of the wind farm (Nilsson  Green 2011).;This leaves the Common Eider as the only species displaying consistent indifference, as this species distribution and numbers were found to be unaffected by the presence of the Nysted, Tun Knob and Lillgrund OWFs (Guillemette et al. 1998 1999 Petersen et al. 2006 Nilsson  Green 2011). In contrast, Larsen and