Thornback Ray Raja clavata, in the vicinity of the Sheringham Shoal wind farm (Greater Wash, UK). The operational site appears to have become increasingly attractive to foraging seals, consistent with a reef effect. (Martin Perrow);The number of wind farms has increased rapidly since the turn of the millennium, albeit often within limited areas, and further expansions are expected in the coming years. As a consequence, there is a rising likelihood of marine mammals becoming exposed to piledriving noise and other pressures related to OWFs. Understanding how pressures from OWFs interact with pressures from other projects and existing pressures from other sources such as fisheries or pollution is crucial to assess any potential population consequences. It is, however, not straightforward to assess cumulative effects because the nature of the various pressures varies greatly. While piledriving noise certainly contributes to overall ocean noise budgets and the effects may well accumulate with other noise sources, such as seismic surveys or shipping, the function of OWFs as refuges from fisheries is very different from the impacts of fisheries on the food resources of marine mammals.;Indeed, there is a clear need to understand better the in combination interaction of wind farms with other different pressures and stressors, such as incidental bycatch, prey depletion, other sources of anthropogenic noise such as sonar, increasing boat traffic, pollution, and the installation of underwater turbines or tidal energy devices (Wilson et al. 2006 Davidson et al. 2012 Lusseau et al. 2012). Especially where populations are small, compared to large populations of widely dispersed species, the expansion of OWFs in particular areas is more likely to cause population effects (Dolman et al. 2006 Tougaard  Mikaelsen 2017).;There have been several attempts to determine possible population impacts of OWFs, all focusing on the responses of marine mammals to underwater noise from pile driving. For example, Thompson et al. (2013) described a framework to assess populationlevel impacts of disturbance from piling noise on a protected Harbour Seal population near to proposed windfarm