Marine mammals are subject to a large range of anthropogenic effects and impacts that are growing in scope and magnitude, withthose associated with wind farms among the most novel. With respect to marine mammals, underwater noise generated during construction, specifically pile driving, is considered to pose the greatest risk of a negative impact on these animals. As noted by Richardson et al. (1995), it is difficult to measure and quantify the effects of sound on marine mammals owing to the technical complexities associated with measurements and study design, although various types of modelling studies show promise (Nabe Nielsen et al. 2014 Hastie et al. 2015 Harwood et al. 2016).;Many species of marine mammals are endangered and are protected by law. In addition, there is considerable public awareness about marine mammals and possible negative impacts are thus high on the agenda when discussing further expansions of offshore wind energy. From the available knowledge it appears, however, that the most relevant impacts of OWFs on marine mammals are associated with the use of steel piles as foundations, while other types, such as suction buckets, gravity foundations and floating foundations, will produce less noise and thus fewer impacts. Regulations on OWF development specific for marine mammals have thus been primarily focused on reducing piledriving noise. Although technologies for noise mitigation are well developed and have been shown to reduce underwater noise immissions and also the disturbance to marine mammals (Nehls et al. 2016 Thomsen  Verfu, Volume 4, Chapter 7), they have only been applied in a few countries so far, primarily Germany and more recently Denmark, as few countries have implemented regulations on underwater noise. Regulating underwater noise immission from pile driving may be justified by the risk of hearing impairments it poses to marine mammals. Recent assessments concluded that a permanent hearing impairment could result from cumulative noise exposures in Harbour Porpoise when large monopiles are driven into the seabed (Nehls et al. 2014 Mackenzie Maxon 2015). Under EU regulations this would be a violation of the obligations concerning strictly protected species.;In Germany, a precautionary SEL criterion of 160 dB re 1 Pa2 s outside a radius of 750 m during piling has been included in the licensing process based on noise levels required for the onset of TTS in Harbour Porpoises (Lucke et al. 2009). This SEL is based on a