In general, however, studies have not routinely distinguished between possible sources of disturbance from the turbines and thus the wind farm as a whole, including noise, shadow effect or movement of the blades. In other cases, the patterns observed may be caused indirectly through changes in the distribution and abundance of prey, rather than linked directly to the activity itself (see Foodweb and indirect effects, below). Teasing apart causal and proximate factors remains a particular challenge bearing in mind that even with rigorous and intensive monitoring coupled withincreasingly sophisticated analytical techniques, the nature of the zeroinflated and overdispersed data prevalent in seabird surveys makes it difficult to detect changes in abundance and distribution in the first place, particularly in relation to discrete shortterm events. Good experimental design is crucial (Vanermen  Steinen, Chapter 8) and there is an increasing trend towards beforeafter gradient (BAG) designs rather than beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) studies, largely owing to the difficulties of establishing a true control. A combination of both approaches may be beneficial (Figure 10.2 and Figure 10.3).;Where the flightlines of birds undertaking regular commuting or foraging movements or more generally during dispersal or migration are disrupted, the resultant displacement is typically termed a barrier effect. There have been surprisingly few studies of barrier effects, perhaps simply as tracks of birds are required to demonstrate them, which, in turn, requires the use of telemetry (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8, Box 8.3 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4), visual tracking (Perrow et al. 2011b), video, radar or a combined sensor system (Skov et al. 2018 Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5). For breeding Sandwich Terns at Sheringham Shoal, the proportion of birds on a consistent flight path actually entering the site dropped from a baseline of 95 to 82.5 during initial construction and 65.1 during turbine installation (Harwood et al. 2017), highlighting both the scope for changes in the strength of any barrier effect according to the nature of works undertaken and potential individual variation (as a variable proportion of birds entered or deviated around the site) that may depend on a number of factors, including sex, reproductive status and season (Thaxter et al. 2015) (see Collision with turbines, below). Desholm  Kahlert (2005) documented the response of migrant waterfowl, mainly Common Eider with some geese, at Nysted wind farm. Here, the number of flocks entering the wind farm decreased by a factor of 4.5 from preconstruction to initial operation. The plot of tracks diverting around the wind farm, with only a low percentage flying down the rows of the wind farm, remains one of the most enduring images of windfarm studies to date. Similarly, of the 292 flocks of migrating Pinkfooted Geese Anser brachyrhynchus (Plonczkier  Simms 2012) predicted to enter the Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind