The first two themes outline the theoretical basis and start with a brief description of the dynamics of the upper ocean and how earth rotation impacts the ocean response. This is considered as general knowledge given at BSc or MSc courses in oceanography, but is outlined here to provide a basis for the theoretical predictions. The third and fourth themes describe some model predictions and empirical evidence of the ocean response to a wind farm. This is partly based on general theoretical predictions and model simulations. Some observations, and results from model simulations, taken at the Alpha Ventus wind farm are also presented. This was presented in a PhD thesis by one of the authors, Elke Ludewig, but is condensed into a more manageable text in this chapter. The fifth theme is devoted to possible increases in primary production as induced by the artificial upwelling.;This study is based on the few earlier studies, mainly in form of relevant peerreviewed literature, of which the authors are aware. Some grey literature on the topic may exist, probably in the form of MSc theses, but these have not been systematically investigated in this study. There have not been many studies on the subject and there is a need for more studies before reliable predictions on the impact on large wind farms on the ocean dynamics and thus the environmental impact of wind farms can be made. However, the underlying dynamics described here are based on wellknown theoretical frameworks that have long been established in physical oceanography.;Atmospheric lowpressure systems have a typical size in the order of 1,000 km, while the corresponding features in the ocean have characteristic scales in the order of 530 km, and are called eddies. In nature, open ocean eddies draw their energy from the largescale ocean flow through various instability mechanisms and not directly from the atmosphere. The reason for this is that direct forcing of ocean eddies from the atmosphere must derive energy from the