Following the evolution of motorpowered shipping in the late eighteenth century, levels of anthropogenic noise in the marine environment increased steadily and now include a variety of sources for example, sonar, seismic exploration using airguns and offshore installations such as oil and gas rigs. Noise apparently continues to increase in many places, as documented by a rise of around 10 dB in parts of the Pacific since the 1960s (Andrew et al. 2002). Cetaceans are often assumed to be susceptible to noise pollution as a result of their use of sound for communication, navigation, orientation, predator avoidance and prey detection (Wartzok  Ketten 1999), all exploiting the fact that sound can travel rapidly over long distances in water where other senses such as vision may be limited by murky or dark environments. Some marine mammals, such as the odontocete cetaceans, use highfrequency sounds (150 Hz to 180 kHz) generated by a complex system of air sacs and the melon, a lipidfilled sac in the forehead (Au 1993 Richardson et al. 1995). Echolocation provides a means of navigating through the environment and facilitates prey capture. In contrast, the very large pelagic baleen whales (mysticetes) do not use echolocation and instead produce lowfrequency sounds in the range of 10200 Hz (7 Hz to 22 kHz) to communicate or sing over huge distances (Southall et al. 2007 Cranford  Krysl 2015). Differently from cetaceans, pinnipeds vocalise and hear both above and below the water, and need to balance abilities in both media to support vital behaviours (Reichmuth et al. 2013) although, according to Southall et al. (2007), pinnipeds appear to be sensitive to a broader range of frequencies in water (75 Hz to 75 kHz) than in air (75 Hz to 30 kHz).;The noise emitted from offshore wind farms (OWFs) is principally related to construction and is particularly loud if steel foundations are driven into the seabed by hydraulic hammers (pile driving). This occupies a key part of sitespecific Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) as well as other regulatory processes concerned with likely effects upon species protected under international conventions and national legislation (Box 6.1). The main species that may be affected by OWFs in Europe, which is the current centre of OWF activity (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1), are the more abundant species of shallow shelf seas, especially Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena and Harbour Seal Phoca vitulina, as well as Grey Seal Halichoerus grypus and Bottlenose Dolphin Tursiops truncatus (Figure 6.1). Many cetacean species favouring deeper waters are precluded from current development areas, although in other locations such as found in the USA, species listed under the Endangered Species Act 1973, including the Northern Right Whale Eubalaena glacialis, Humpback Whale Megaptera novaeangliae and various rorquals, may come into focus (Bailey et al. 2014).