Several piscivorous or rather generalist predatory (andorkleptoparasitic) seabirds, including Northern Gannet, terns, gulls, and skuas, are the equivalent of raptors at sea, with all of these species spending much time visually scanning the sea surface for foraging opportunities. Martin (2011) noted the potential similarities between terns (specifically Gullbilled Tern Gelochelidon nilotica), and eagles which both turn their heads systematically to look both laterally and downwards (forward pitch of the head by 60) when searching for prey on the water or ground below, which may make them vulnerable to collision with artificial objects such as wind turbines. In general, however, it appears that we know relatively little about the visual systems of aerial foraging birds likely to collide with turbines in comparison to groups such as auks (Martin  Wanless 2015) or procelliiformes (Martin  Prince 2001). Nevertheless, at least Northern Gannet appears to be able to see and perceive the clutter of rotating turbines as a threat and avoids wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). Sandwich Terns also show clear awareness of the location of the turbines in order to maximise the distance from them by generally passing down the centre of the rows (Harwood et al. 2017). Similarly, although the GPStagged Lesser Blackbacked Gulls in the study by Thaxter et al. (2018) frequently entered wind farms at risk height, the overlap with the threedimensional rotorswept volume was significantly lower than expected from a random distribution, thereby indicating mesoscale avoidance.;However, birds will make mistakes. These may be exacerbated by inclement weather conditions, although understanding of the conditions during which collision may occur remains limited (King, Chapter 9). After modelling flight distribution in accordance with weather conditions, Skov et al. (2012) suggested that the risk of collision for Northern Gannet and large gulls increased with tail or side winds, with increased risk in winds of intermediate strength for Northern Gannet and low wind speed for gulls, perhaps partly as gulls increased flight altitude with decreasing wind speed. Fog or mist is often seen to be problematic, especially for nocturnal migrating passerines, which may be brought down to turbine height by such conditions (Hill et al. 2014), with these becoming disorientated and trapped among lighted turbines (Hppop et al., Chapter 7). There appears to be less of an issue for waterfowl, as