Figure 8.7 Great Blackbacked Gulls Larus marinus (with one Lesser Black backed Gull Larus fuscus) roosting, resting and preening on a turbineplatform before the installation of the turbine. (Hilbran Verstraete);Finally, a postconstruction increase in Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis has been reported at the Thornton Bank OWF, with this increase being strongest in the buffer area up to 3 km from the wind farm. Unfortunately, this is the only postconstruction study reporting on displacement of Sandwich Terns, and general conclusions cannot be drawn from a single study. In contrast, Sandwich Terns have been shown to suffer from a barrier effect when approaching OWFs, with macroavoidance rates of 28 and 30 reported by Krijgsveld et al. (2011) and Harwood et al. (2017), respectively. Clearly, in areas with a high proportion of commuting birds, a strong barrier effect may result in apparent displacement of Sandwich Terns from the windfarm area. The Harwood et al. (2017) study of breeding birds during the construction period introduces further complexity as the rate of macroavoidance was derived from the response of tracked birds (see Box 8.3), whereas the simultaneous boatbased surveys showed no clear reduction in density within the OWF, but a clear increase in density within 2 km of the wind farm. Attraction to the area around the OWF was linked to the intensive use of the eight navigation buoys around the OWF perimeter by resting and socialising Sandwich Terns.;Recent advances in, and better affordability of, Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking technologies have offered increasing possibilities to assess the likely impacts of offshore wind developments on seabirds (e.g. Thaxter et al. 2015 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4) (Figure 8.8). While boatbased and aerial surveys are limited to specific time frames and conditions such as daylight and a favourable sea state, GPS tracking allows continuous monitoring of an individual birds behaviour over the full tidal and diurnal cycle in all weather conditions. Owing to the detailed information on flight directions and heights, it allows monitoring of both