In contrast, there is growing concern over cumulative negative impacts of displacement for a number of bird species, especially divers, which have a clear negative response to wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). Studies cited byVanermen  Stienen predicted cumulative effects of up to a 5 loss in habitat, up to a 5 decline in breeding success and up to a 2 decline in adult survival. Although quantifying the impact of direct losses ofseabirds through collision may require fewer modelling assumptions, the considerable uncertainty of the predictions of collision risk modelling, which in turn results from the lack of empirical evidence of collisions to allow avoidance rates to be clearly quantified (see King, Chapter 9), means that cumulative effects remain particularly difficult to assess. Advances in the use of modelling to allow decision making with confidence are outlined by Cook  Masden (Volume 4, Chapter 6).;Broadly similar modelling approaches have been developed in relation to the impacts of piledriving noise on birth and survival rates of individual marine mammals (see Nehls et al., Chapter 6), namely the Interim Population Consequences of Disturbance (iPCOD) stagestructured stochastic population models (Harwood et al. 2016) and the Disturbance Effects on the Harbour Porpoise Population in the North Sea (DEPONS) (van Beest et al. 2015). Both models can be used to determine both cumulative effects of multiple developments and incombination effects including mortality associated with incidental bycatch. To date, no significant cumulative impacts appear to have been recorded, although the extent to which both models have been used remains unclear.;According to Vanermen  Stienen (Chapter 8), an ideal cumulative impact assessment would include all existing and new windfarm developments within the yearround distribution range of the species population under study. This may be very large for mobile species such as seabirds or many marine mammals, as well as migratory birds and bats. The range of the population under investigation may also be extremely difficult to define in terms of a biogeographic unit. Thus, in practice, cumulative impact assessments are generally performed on smaller geographical scales such as legislative units associated with national boundaries, or according to particular protected sites or a suite of sites, such as SPAs for birds or Special Areas of Conservation for marine mammals. Overall, much work remains to be done to truly understand the full extent of cumulative impacts.