Structures such as gravity caissons in the case of Nysted in Denmark (Danish Energy Authority 2006) have been installed in various conditions from relatively shallow water and low wavecurrent forcing to slightly deeper water, such as 20 m in the case of Thornton Bank, Belgium, and moderate wavetidal conditions (Peire et al. 2009). Structures tend to be large and heavy, reaching thousands of tonnes. Jacket foundations are typically three or foursided steel structures that are typically 30 m wide and 60 m high connected to the seabed using micropiles and with a tower extending to the surface. Suctionbuckets are still under development, but have been used for meteorological masts such as at Dogger Bank (Nielson 2016). They consist of an inverted bucket that is either pushed into the seabed or installed by negative pressure. Typical dimensions for the bucket are up to 10 m diameter and 15 m high, with some foundations consisting of more than one bucket. Potential impacts of gravitybase structures are often classified as the realistic worst case scenario due to the potentially large scour pit and the degree of mitigation required (scour protection).;At the time of writing, only one offshore floating wind farm has been constructed, the Hywind Scotland Pilot Park in the Buchan Deep offshore of Peterhead on the east coast of Scotland, although another, the Kincardine OWF project offshore of nearby Aberdeen, is in planning. A number of prototypes have also been built and tested including Ideol, VoltunUS, BlueH, WindFloat, and Sakiyama in several countries. Floating prototypes have employed a range of designs including semisubmersible platforms, sparbuoys and tensionleg platforms. All designs consist of a submerged, stable structure that is anchored to the seabed by a series of tethers. The tether anchor points could be either micropiles or gravity anchors, depending on the seabed conditions, or kedge anchors on catenary moorings. Potential impacts relate to the type of anchoring systems used, such as a kedge anchor or suction bucket, and the abrasion on the seabed caused by the catenary mooring line. In terms of coastal processes, impacts are expected to be less than with standard monopile designs but no evidence is available to demonstrate this.