The purpose of wind farms is to extract energy from the wind. In this process, the wind speed will decrease and the turbulence levels will increase as unavoidable consequences of the energyextraction process. The reduction in wind speed implies that the wind stress on the ocean surface will decrease. Moreover, given the relatively small scales of the wind farms compared to the size of lowpressure systems, the forcing of potential vorticity will increase greatly in the presence of a wind farm. The winddriven upwelling and downwelling depend directly on the strength of this forcing, which implies that large wind farms may generate unnaturally strong vertical motions in the ocean. More studies are needed, but the predictions are based on solid and wellknown features of ocean dynamics. Fineresolution measurements around an operating wind farm confirmed that the dynamics of the North Sea may be significantly affected by OWFs in general. The observations follow theoretical predictions validating the general theoretical considerations behind earlier studies. Following this first investigation, further cruises around Germanys wind farms are planned to gain a more comprehensive view of the full impact of wind farms on the marine system.;The ocean eddies generated by the wind wake are likely to generate stronger variability in the currents. The longterm development of these eddies has not yet been considered. Interactions with topography and naturally occurring ocean currents and eddies are not yet understood, which is also an area where possible large impacts on the ocean dynamics and the ecosystem are still to be discovered. Synthetic aperture radar images at Horns Rev (Christiansen  Hasager 2005) showing the bottom structures may be related to an ocean current travelling around closed depth contours corresponding to a general theoretical prediction.;Some back of an envelope calculations on the possible impacts on ecosystems have been presented in this chapter. For example, 20 large wind farms in the North Sea may increase the total primary production by a few per cent. The local impact closer to wind farms is much stronger, with an estimated increase in primary production of 5080. However, more realistic studies to evaluate these numbers are badly needed.