Volume 4, Chapter 5). However, until 2017, the only published information about directly recorded bird collision with an offshore turbine, other than a single passerine detected using thermal observation (Petersen et al. 2006), was in Kalmar Sound, Sweden (Pettersson 2005). Here, four Common Eider Somateria mollissima in a large flock migrating through the Sound were observed colliding with a turbine blade, or its wake turbulence, and were knocked to the sea surface. Three birds recovered and quickly flew onwards. No other collisions were recorded during the observation of approximately 130,000 waterfowl on spring and autumn migration past the turbines. Based on this, and five occasions when avoidance was observed, a collision rate of one bird per turbine per year was estimated. Although Common Eider is a member of the duck family (Anatidae) rather than one of the seabird families identified in the scope of this chapter, this study is notable for good design and the early use of direct observation combined with other technologies, including an optical rangefinder and radar, to calculate an offshore collision rate per turbine.;Subsequently, the only other reported collisions at an OWF have been recorded at Thanet, UK, as part of an industrylevel study on bird avoidance behaviour (ORJIP). This study recorded six collisions using video camera linked to a tracking radar, the species being Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, LesserGreat Black backed Gull Larus fuscusmarinus, two large gulls and two unidentified gulls (Skov et al. 2018). This was from a total of approximately 12,000 bird tracks logged over a twenty two month period. All collisions were recorded during daylight and it was noted that night time videos recorded from the same turbine positions recorded only between 2 and 3 of the daytime activity levels, with many of the birds recorded sitting on the water, suggesting that for these species, at this site, nocturnal collision risk was low.;Collisions of seabirds at onshore and coastal wind farms have been summarised in reviews by a number of authors, including Percival (2003), Dierschke and Garthe (2006), MacArthur Green et al. (2013) and Cook et al. (2014, 2018), as summarised in Table 9.1. In northern Europe and the USA, gulls are the most commonly recorded collision victims, the most frequent being Blackheaded