The idea that the wind wake from wind farms may impact stronglyon ocean circulation was first put forward by Brostrm (2008). He used theoretical predictions and some idealised numerical model simulations to show that wind farms may produce a strong response on the ocean. A key parameter that determines the ocean response is the size of the wind farm that is, the scale of the wake as compared to the dynamic scale of the ocean, which is also known as the internal radius of deformation or the internal Rossby radius (Box 3.3). This length scale depends on stratification and for coastal areas it is expected to be in the order of 530 km, depending on stratification becoming larger for stronger stratification and smaller for weaker stratification. If a wind farm is much smaller than the internal deformation radius, the consequent response from the wind farm is weak, while it becomes much larger as its size approaches the internal radius of deformation (Brostrm 2008). The large wind farms beginning to be installed today, and those in the near future, are probably equal in size to, or becoming larger than, the internal deformation radius. When they are of similar sizes, theory suggests that the signal in the upper ocean structure starts to become significant, but also that the ocean response will propagate out from the area directly influenced by the wind farm. Thus, the upwelling would be expected to be distributed over a much larger area than both the wind farm and its wake, covering an area perhaps ten times the area of the wind farm. For more details see Box 3.3.;The rotation of the earth exerts strong control over the large scale ocean currents. The motion of the rotating earth implies that a moving object will tend to feel a force perpendicular to the motion, known as the Coriolis force. The fact that the earth rotates also implies that the potential vorticity, that is, the rotation of the water that on earth also includes the earths own rotation, becomes important for how a fluid can move on the earth. For instance, if we try to force water to go over a subsea canyon, the water column will stretch and it will start to rotate owing to the conservation of angular momentum. This rotation will steer the flow in such a way that ocean currents