Avoidance is a key factor in the theoretical prediction of collision risk as small changes in avoidance rate have a big influence on fatality estimates (Cook  Masden, Volume 4, Chapter 6). Empirically calculated avoidance rates such as those derived by Cook et al. (2014, 2018) are generally higher than the default rates used previously in the UK, which were initially as low as 95 before being revised to 98 for most species based on evidence from onshore wind farms. MacArthur Green et al. (2013) made the first wellargued case that the 98 generic rate was too precautionary for seabirds. This was primarily because terrestrial survey methods covered only a relatively small area of the wind farm site and data could only represent microavoidance rates. Anymacroavoidance as shown by some seabirds at sea would therefore not be incorporated. Furthermore, unlike offshore surveys, terrestrial surveys did not correct for imperfect detection to derive density and thus potential passage rates. The study went on to cite or reestimate microavoidance rates from a number of both onshore and offshore wind farms of 99.25100 for gulls and 99.83100 for terns, and recommended an overall rate of 99.8 for Northern Gannet. Based on this, MacArthur Green et al. (2013) argued that the seabird default rate should be raised from 98. Subsequently, Cook et al. (2014) reanalysed a number of studies using standard methods and more closely prescribed criteria as described in the previous section. This confirmed that empirically derived seabird avoidance rates were indeed closer to 99 and sometimes higher. The most recent study at the time of writing (Skov et al. 2018) supports the conclusion that previous rates have been precautionary and confirms that for the target species studied Northern Gannet, Blacklegged Kittiwake, European Herring Gull, Lesser Blackbacked Gull and Great Blackbacked Gull, empirical avoidance rates exceed 99.6.;In contrast to avoidance, a few species are attracted to OWFs, specifically Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo and European Shag Phalacrocorax aristotelis, which use parts of the turbine structures as a perch for wingdrying and roosting (Dierschke  Garthe 2006 Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Dierschke et al. 2016 Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). In theory, this could increase collision risk by bringing birds more regularly into contact with the rotorswept area of the turbines. Outside wind farms, the flight height of Great Cormorant has been shown to be variable (Cook et al. 2012) but within wind farms 50 of cormorants were recorded at rotor height (Krijgsveld et al. 2011).;Large gulls (Larus spp.) have been shown to be attracted to some Belgian wind farms (Vanermen et al. 2015). However, the pattern is inconsistent as GPS tracking of large gulls at Thorntonbank showed that although birds were present within the wind farm, roosting on the turbine jackets and occasionally feeding on mussels growing in the intertidal sections, densities were lower inside than outside the wind farm and birds were more common on the outer rows than farther in and spent less time in flight. This suggests either macro