Offshore wind in the UK has undergone six leasing rounds since 2000 and, by design, has played a significant role in the rapid expansion of the emerging offshore market by incentivising a competitive leasing process for largescale commercial projects. This step change in offshore wind demonstrated the benefits of a strategic approach to deployment by providing developers with themeans to gain technological, economic and environmental expertise at a scale not previously witnessed. Round 3 aimed to deliver up to 25 GW by 2020 and, against all expectations, 96 UK and international companies and consortia registered for a piece of seabed real estate termed Round 3 Zones. Unlike previous leasing rounds, The Crown Estate (TCE) invested 100 million in the development stages and worked closely with developers towards solutions to address consenting challenges.;In 2013, London Array Offshore Wind Farm (630 MW) came on line as the largest OWF in the world, although this title was stolen by the 659 MW Walney Extension in 2018 for a brief time until the 1.2 GW Hornsea Project One, planned to become operational in 2020. The latter project won its subsidy via the UK CfD regime, which has seen a spectacular reduction in the levelised cost of energy (LCoE) of offshore wind in less than 3 years. The UK CfD regime is a governmentsupported mechanism whereby the generator of lowcarbon energy is paid the difference between the contractual strike price and the wholesale market price for electricity by the Low Carbon Contracts Company, a government owned company. In the event that wholesale electricity prices exceed the agreed strike price, the generator is obliged to pay the difference back. The system allows the generator to have more certainty on their investment return during the 15year CfD lifetime, while keeping the cost to consumers down.;The 2017 CfD Allocation Round 2 saw strike prices for offshore wind plummet to 57.50, an almost 50 reduction from the lowest bid price in the 2015 Allocation Round 1 of 114.39. The challenge put forward to the industry by the DECC to reach an LCoE of 100 per MWh by 2020 (DECC 2011) has been delivered and exceeded well ahead of schedule. One of the biggest enablers for this UK record low strike price has been development of larger turbines that are soon expected to exceed 10 MW, as they are more efficient in converting kinetic energy from wind into electricity and can utilise a greater range of wind speeds to generate electricity.;The UK has a relatively mature consenting regime, with offshore wind growth in excess of 1 GW each year. In England and Wales, the key legislation governing offshore wind projects above 50 MW is the Planning Act 2008 (as amended by the Localism Act 2011).