The huge surface area assigned to current and future offshore wind farm (OWF) developments has raised concern over the impact of displacement and resultant habitat loss on seabird populations. The North and Baltic Seas host most of the worlds OWFs, and numerous local studies have aimed to assess displacement effects on a range of seabirds. Extensive literature review demonstrates that divers, Northern Gannet, Common Guillemot and Razorbill show relatively consistent avoidance of areas occupied by turbines, although not all studies could detect displacement of these species. Spatial variation in observed displacement levels may be due to multiple local factors such as habitat quality, prey distribution, windfarm configuration and location relative to the colony andor feeding grounds. At the other end of the spectrum, Great Cormorants and Great Black backed Gulls appear to be attracted to OWFs, where both species favour roosting on the foundations of the outermost turbines. Common Eider was the only species to show consistently indifferent behaviour among the available studies. Lastly, the response of a number of species, mainly gulls, was found to be inconsistent. Importantly, the ecological consequences of the observed changes in distribution remain poorly understood. Species avoiding wind farms are expected to expend more energy to find alternative habitat, where they may face increased competition with conspecifics, in turn affecting food intake rates. Otherwise, birds attracted to wind farms are likely to be subject to increased collision risk and additional mortality. A quantitative translation of these effects intoa population impact, however, is very difficult. Individualbased modelling is a promising tool to estimate the impact of displacement by one or multiple wind farms on demographic parameters. Yet, a lack of knowledge on several crucial aspects of seabird ecology impedes a straightforward interpretation of individualbased model outcomes.;The European Unions targets on renewable energy and spatial conflicts on land have inevitably led to the exploitation of offshore wind. What began with single and wellmonitored pilot projects such as Horns Rev and Nysted in Denmark (DONG Energy  Vattenfall 2006) quickly evolved into largescale industrial developments. More than 4,000 operational turbines have been installed in European waters, generating nearly 16 GW of electricity and the offshore wind industry is still growing rapidly (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1). At the time of writing, the North and Baltic Seas host most of the worlds wind turbines, alongside globally important seabird populations. Offshore wind farms (OWFs) need a lot of space, but so do seabirds. OWFs built close to large seabird colonies raise most concern as birds may need to fly through or around the turbines on a daily basis to access their foraging grounds, resulting in adverse effects such as increased collision risk or higher energy expenditure and longer foraging flights, potentially affecting chick provisioning rates. Avoidance behaviour or underwater physical and ecological changes (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2 Brostrm et al., Chapter 3 Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) could imply that important foraging grounds are lost for seabirds. In addition, outside the breeding season, OWFs are likely to conflict with seabirds as a result of habitat loss in wintering areas or increased collision risk during migration or dispersal.