The main benefit of offshore wind energy is the ability to deploy larger turbines in greater numbers, where wind resource is more favourable than onshore. There are, however, drawbacks when it comes to some installation and operational activities that have required adaptation owing to the harsher conditions experienced offshore. Moreover, as projects become located farther offshore, the cost escalates as larger foundations are required for deeper water, transit times to and from the wind farm increase, the weatherwindows within which installation vessels can operate become smaller, and there is reduced availability of suitable installation vessels and longer export cables. Technologies deployed must be able to withstand the often extreme conditions of the marine environment, and remain reliable in terms of their electrical output throughout their operational lifetime.;Offshore wind deployment still remains largely dependent on government subsidies, although significant industry progress has been made on cost reduction and technological advances, which is yielding positive results (Offshore Wind Programme Board 2016). In 2017, the German offshore wind market granted power purchase agreements to four projects for a total of 1,490 MW at a recordlow weighted average strike price of 4.40 per MWh, with at least one project coming in at 0.00 per MWh, that is, at a zero subsidy. Such a groundbreaking strike price was enabled by a change in government policy in Germany to move towards a competitive auction process challenging developers to seek the most cost effective options. Zerosubsidy projects have since been seen in the Netherlands. Whether similar strike prices can be achieved elsewhere remains to be seen, as there are varying factors that contribute to the proposed strike price. For example, in the UK, developers to date have covered not only the cost of development and delivery of the wind farm, but also transmission assets such as offshore platforms, export cables and onshore electrical infrastructure, and costs associated with the grid connection itself. Despite this, in 2017 the UK also experienced lower than expected strike prices for delivery year 202223, as part of the Contracts for Difference (CfD) Allocation Round 2, equating to a price drop of around 50 since February 2015 (see Consenting process and issues below).;Innovation in offshore wind technology is critical to the effectiveness of cost reduction measures and improved reliability during operation. However, before a project is built, a relatively long development and consent process is required to ensure that all potential impacts pass rigorous environmental and planning procedures, governed by legislation and in accordance with best practice. This process can take up to a decade before consent is awarded (Freeman 2014). From a developers perspective, this