Conceptually, incombination and cumulative effects across wind farms may magnify the effect of a factor or factors at a local scale. The definition of incombination effects used here is both the combined effect of different factors within a wind farm, such as the effect of noise added to the effect of the provision of new habitat, and the combined effect of wind farms with other factors operating in the marine environment, such as pollution. Thus, in any EIA or HRA process, as well as the incombination synergistic and antagonistic effects of all aspects of the same development, the in combination effects with other marine activities need to be considered.;For sediment communities, Dannheim et al. (Chapter 4) record sand and gravel extraction, trawling, oil and gas activities as the focus of incombination effects among the many human activities and pressures, whereas for marine mammals, Nehls et al. (Chapter 6) note incidental bycatch, prey depletion, further sources of anthropogenic noise such as sonar, boat traffic and pollution, as well as other renewable energies such as tidal turbines as being of particular importance. At the same time, Nehls et al. (Chapter 6) identify a clear need to better understand the incombination interaction of wind farms with other different pressures and stressors. For fish, Gill  Wilhelmsson (Chapter 5) further state that the knowledge base is currently inadequate to assess incombination effects, or indeed the cumulative effects of the installation of multiple wind farms (see later in this section).;The assessment of incombination effects for birds reveals some of the inherent issues encountered when undertaking assessment. Here, the two principal effects, collision and displacement (but see Foodweb and indirect effects, above), are often thought to be more or less mutually exclusive (see Disturbance and displacement, above). This is unlikely to be completely true, however, as a result of individual variation in response according to a number of factors. Thus, part of the population may be displaced while the remainder is potentially at risk of collision. Any failure to consider in combination effects can then be linked to the difficulty of combining effects as a result of the different metrics produced. For example, collision results in a loss of individuals from the population, whereas displacement is judged as an effect on a