The expectation from the literature is that OWFs will influence local fish presence and abundance, with consequences for species interactions such as predatorprey dynamics, foodweb connectivity and the fish community structure in terms of species abundance, body size of individuals and population demographics (Gill 2005 Raoux et al. 2017). How the scale of these effects, both direct and indirect, may influence the ecological changes associated with OWFs in isolation and cumulatively is regarded as an important but as yet unanswered topic (Boehlert  Gill 2010 Wilding et al. 2017 Willsteed et al. 2017). Furthermore, the significance of existing pressures on fish, such as fishing, habitat degradation and ocean acidification, needs to be acknowledged to enable appropriate interpretation of the changes that are associated with OWFs. In essence, the key questions relate to whether OWFs cause populationlevel effects, perhaps for some species cumulatively, that can be compared to any degree with changes resulting from othermajor effectors of change on the fish community.;The basis for understanding knowledge on the effects of OWFs on fish comes from two primary sources academic journals and texts and environmental reports, associated with either monitoring for the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process or outputs from commissioned studies on particular topics. The recognition of both peerreview and greyliterature sources is important, as relying on just one or the other results in poor evidence coverage in the case of journals, or limitations in the scope of understanding of the effects of OWFs on fish in relation to environmental monitoring reports or commissioned reports. The present authors undertook a semi systematic review of the topic status. Both authors have written about and reviewed the topic previously hence, this knowledge was updated through online search engines, principally Scopus and Google Scholar, for publications and reports since 2010 covering the following terms fish and offshore wind farms, fisheries and offshore wind farms, and derivative terms, such as OWFs. Furthermore, the interest in how OWFs interact with the environment is global but most of the development has been in northern European waters hence, there have been a number of reports speculating on the possible effects on fish. However, the evidence base is restricted to where the wind turbines have actually been deployed and this indicates that knowledge on how geographic location may play a role is lacking.