The collision of seabirds, migratory birds and bats remains of concern, but with little empirical basis. However, the technical issues involved mean that relatively few studies have been undertaken and only a handful of collision events have ever been observed. The question of collision is rarely taken on at individual sites and is generally seen to be an industryscale issue with demonstration projects such as ORJIP (Skov et al. 2018). The more vulnerable groups appear to include less riskaverse species such as many gulls, especially large Larus spp., and possibly migratory raptors and passerines in adverse weather conditions. For passerines, it remains questionable whether losses, even in a cumulative context, could be significant at a population level in the presence of other limiting factors, although in real terms not enough is yet known. The same could be said for bats, with the proviso that these may be more vulnerable as a result of their population dynamics, and as yet, we have barely begun to understand what is out there. For seabirds, the key issues may be where wind farms are developed in foraging grounds associated with breeding colonies, where birds may take more risks in order to provision chicks. In general, without better focus on key sites or suites of sites and key species, we may continue to chase the elusive phantom of collision risk, perhaps diverting attention away from more tangible impacts, including displacement and indirect effects.;Indeed, the review of information in this volume points to the high likelihood of indirect effects cascading throughout the food web. But, rather than being given the attention required, indirect effects seem to have generally been placed in the too difficult box and have largely been ignored. As such, the true scope and scale of ecological effects remain virtually completely unknown and integrated ecosystemscale research, particularly as the expansion of wind farms continues, is urgently required. A model for rigorous data collection for different faunal groups as well as physical effects and ocean dynamics already exists in the form of the StUKplus programme by BSH and BMU (2014), which could be adapted to better understand biophysical and trophic linkages.