When aiming to monitor overall seabird responses to OWFs, one method is not undeniably better than the other. Nevertheless, when wanting to investigate the response of a specific bird species (group), it is easier to define the best way to go. For scoters and divers, aerial surveys undoubtedly supply better and less biased data but when targeting Common Guillemot Uria aalge, for example, one will be better off with boatbased surveys. In the end, the chosen method is likely to be a compromise between the study goals and the budget and logistics available to reach those goals. Camphuysen et al. (2004) detail census techniques for both aerial and boatbased survey methods, and provide an extensive tabular overview of the suitability of either method depending on themonitoring objective. A full overview is also provided by Webb and Nehls (Chapter 3 in Volume 4 of this series).;The monitoring setup determines where and for how long monitoring should be performed, as well as the spatiotemporal resolution of the planned surveys. A commonly applied survey design in an OWF displacement framework has parallel and equally spaced transects in a wide study area with the wind farm located in the middle. Transects are typically spaced 14 km apart. When this kind of monitoring is performed before as well as after windfarm construction, this is further referred to as a beforeafter gradient (BAG) design. In a BAG approach one assumes any impactinduced differences between the pre and postconstruction period to be a function of distance from the wind farm and that any effects would be roughly the same in all directions (Oedekoven et al. 2013). A significant beforeafter change in abundance centred on the impacted site and decaying with distance provides compelling evidence of a causal relationship between the impact and the observed change (Box 8.1).;This case study presents the approach proposed by Petersen et al. (2011) to model abundance patterns of wintering seaducks in relation to the construction of the Nysted offshore wind farm (OWF), accounting for imperfect detection, local surface features and autocorrelation. The proposed method provides a quantification of distributional effects over a gradient in space and time, offering an alternative to beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) designs. The study area of 1,350 km2 included the OWF and a large reference area around it. The monitoring programme comprised three preconstruction years (2000