Given their strong displacement response and high conservation status, several cumulative impact assessments have been performed for wintering Redthroated Divers. Garthe and Mendel (2010) calculated that displacement by all current and proposed OWFs in German North Sea waters would affect 1,450 individuals. As OWFs and shipping exclude each other in marine spatial planning, disturbance by shipping traffic is expected to affect another 2,700individuals, resulting in a total of 4,150 birds disturbed by the cumulative effect of wind exploitation and shipping. As the north west European population size is estimated to be a minimum of 150,000 birds (Wetlands International 2017), this comprises almost 3 of the biogeographic population. Busch et al. (2013) performed a cumulative impact assessment by estimating the amount of OWF induced habitat loss in English, German, Dutch and Belgian North Sea waters. Considering all operating, planned and approved OWFs, the authors concluded that 5.4 of potential diver habitat was endangered, with a 0.5 habitat loss in areas with very high diver abundance. The same exercise for Northern Gannet and Lesser Blackbacked Gull resulted in an estimated habitat loss of 1.8 and 1.6, respectively.;Topping and Petersen (2011) developed a more advanced individualbased model (IBM) to assess the impact of cumulative displacement effects on wintering Redthroated Divers. The authors compared the potential impact of three scenarios encompassing a range of possible windfarm developments in the entire Baltic in combination with the eastern North Sea from the Netherlands in the south to midNorway in the north. The primary conclusion of this study was that in all scenarios there was a detectable, but small, impact resulting in a less than 2 decline in the diver population.;The use of such IBMs in combination with Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking data proves particularly promising. Searle et al. (2014) modelled the population consequences of displacement for five seabird species, namely Northern Gannet, Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, Common Guillemot, Razorbill and Atlantic Puffin Fratercula arctica breeding at four SPAs (Forth Islands, St. Abbs Head, Buchan Ness and Fowlsheugh) in the proximity of proposed OWF developments along the eastern coast of Scotland. Bird distribution was estimated based on the results generated by GPS loggers deployed on birds from all four SPAs during the chickrearing phase. The impacts of displacement on population size were considered to operate via reduced body mass of adults leading to lower survival, specifically in the following winter, with the assumption that any current breeding attempt may be abandoned, and reduced survival of offspring during the breeding season. The model simulations indicated a possible decline