OWFs may also influence local predatorprey dynamics. Below the surface in the surrounding benthodemersal zone, several species appear to be attracted to and benefit from the physical presence of turbines, whereas local abundances of other species may be negatively affected. It has been suggested that the densities of some benthic prey items can decrease with proximity to artificial structures owing to predation by fish attracted to and resident onthe structures, of which some could be new to the area, and that deployment of these structures could even cause the elimination of prey species in adjacent areas (Davis et al. 1982 Kurz 1995 Jordan et al. 2005).;Reefdwelling species can be limited in their distribution by too large distances between hardbottom areas. Wind turbines could facilitate the establishment of the new species in the recipient region, including invasive nonnative species, by providing beach heads and stepping stones for spread, as suggested by Wilhelmsson and Malm (2008) and Adams et al. (2014). This possibility has mostly been considered in relation to invertebrates with freedrifting larvae (Miller et al. 2014), but may also be applied to some fish species that are dependent on hardbottom andor shallow habitats during parts of their life cycles.;Within the water column and towards the surface, the change in fish abundance and distribution can also play a role in changes to predatorprey dynamics. Decreased numbers of fish prey have been shown to cause localised reductions in feeding by the seabird Little Tern Sternula albifrons, which was then linked to egg abandonment by adults and low levels of chick hatching (Perrow et al. 2011). Directed movement behaviour in Harbour Seal Phoca vitulina and Grey Seal Halichoerus grypus has been associated with the presence of prey around multiple turbines (Russell et al. 2014 Nehls et al., Chapter 6). The few studies on predatorprey relationships indicate that fish associated with OWFs are having an influence on the distribution of piscivorous predators in the local area.;As indicated in Figure 5.5, the submerged turbine component may affect the trophic web functioning in the area (Raoux et al. 2017). Wind turbines seem to offer particularly favourable substrates for colonising invertebrate filterers such as Blue Mussel and cirriped barnacles, principally Semibalanus balanoides (de Mesel et al. 2015 Dannheim et al., Chapter 4), with the resultant sessile biota being dominated either by these groups or by assemblages comprised of anemones, hydroids and solitary sea squirts (Wilhelmsson  Malm 2008 Maar et al. 2009 Ashley et al. 2014). The matrices of sessile biota on the wind turbines also harbour macroinvertebrates that constitute a potential food resource for associated fish (Reubens et al. 2013a). The fish and sessile