Good weather, defined as decreasing humidity and increasing barometric pressure, may also influence flight height, as demonstrated at Horns Rev for both Northern Gannet and terns, which flew higher under such conditions, potentially increasingtheir collision risk (Skov et al. 2012). The same study also stated that humidity was inversely correlated with visibility, implying that in poor visibility, seabird flight height would decrease, although this is not explicitly stated. At Egmond aan Zee, seabirds were found to avoid even stationary turbines and the wind farm as a whole at a greater distance in conditions of poor visibility (Krijgsveld et al. 2011).;In general, the influence of bad weather on seabird flight height is not well understood as many methods of offshore bird survey, particularly visual boatbased or digital aerial surveys, are curtailed in poor weather, and data quality for radar may be compromised by wave height or rain (Fijn et al. 2015). Heavy rain is thought to reduce flight height, particularly of migrating birds (Hppop et al. 2006), which may bring them down from high altitude and into the risk zone of rotating turbines.;Where empirical evidence is thin, as it is for most effects on seabirds from OWFs, proxy measures are required to assess the sensitivity of a site or species to windfarm development for the purposes of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). As a result, a number of sensitivity indices have been developed. On a species level, their use is primarily for screening whether the species should be taken forward for assessment, in this case for collision risk. At a site level, risk indices are ideally used strategically to identify whether an area is suitable for offshore wind development or whether the putative levels of collision (or some other effect) make it unsuitable.;The first species index was developed for the German waters of the southern North Sea (Garthe  Hppop 2004). Sensitivity was scored on a scale of 15 for nine factors based on existing knowledge and expert judgement and combined to form a risk index incorporating both collision and displacement. The attributes used as collision risk indicators were flight altitude, manoeuvrability, percentage of time flying during the day and a nocturnal activity factor. These were combined with the species biogeographic population size, adult survival rate and conservation