The aim in this chapter is to provide a thorough review of existing empirical knowledge on OWFinduced displacement of seabirds. As a starting point, the authors consulted the detailed review paper by Dierschke et al. (2016), bringing together the results of seabird displacement studies at 20 operational OWFs in northwest European waters. The methodology applied by Dierschke et al. (2016) was revisited to formulate speciesspecific conclusions on displacement. While the postconstruction study results collected at the Luchterduinen and Greater Gabbard OWFs were added, some of the studies used by Dierschke et al. (2016) were not included because a few are not publicly available and, in the authors view, others have too limited numerical information to allow a reliable interpretation or verification of the reported conclusions. The authors further consulted their own literature database, including peerreviewed as well as grey literature, and performed a thorough internet search to look for possible knowledge gaps. The internet was scanned using Scholar Google and Google, using keywords such as seabird, displacement, avoidance, offshore wind and cumulative impact both singly and in combination alongside targeted species names. Geographically, this chapter focuses on results gathered in northwest European marine waters for the obvious reason that very little (if any) postconstruction research has yet been conducted outside this region. Furthermore, the focus is on the effects of operational OWFs rather than on construction activities, because the latter are rather short term compared to a wind farms operational phase. As will become clear as the chapter continues, most research has aimed at assessing the responses of seabirds to OWFs, measuring levels of avoidance or attraction, but very few have tried to quantify the actual consequences of the observed changes on seabird energetics or demographics. Animportant part of this chapter was therefore reserved for mapping the remaining uncertainties and knowledge gaps.;In an ideal world, the scientific international community would have agreed on a best practice and affordable monitoring setup long before the first offshore turbines were built, generating standardised study results and allowing reliable comparison between sites. In practice, however, there appears to be huge variation in the applied methodology and dataprocessing strategy. This variation is found in every step of the research process, which can be roughly divided into three parts (1) recording and counting of birds, (2) monitoring setup, and (3) data processing and modelling.;In OWFrelated seabird displacement studies, three methods are generally applied for counting birds boatbased surveys with visual recording, and aerial surveys with either visual recording or digital imagery (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3 in Volume 4 of this series). Each of these methods has its advantages and limitations. Boatbased surveys stand out when it comes to the detailed recording of birds to species level and detailed information on their behaviour (including that related to foraging and feeding) and flight direction. Boatbased surveys further allow simultaneous and realtime measurements of environmental variables such as water salinity and seasurface temperature. The major drawbacks of boatbased surveys are the inevitable disturbance of divers (Gavia spp.) and seaducks such as scoters (Melanitta spp.), and the attraction of birds towards the vessel, as is the case for some gulls, and which may also apply to Northern Fulmar Fulmaris glacialis and Northern Gannet Morus bassanus in some circumstances. Most other bird species are less sensitive to disturbance and attraction, and at least