The lighting of OWFs is mandatory for safe air and sea navigation. Although Danish studies found no evidence that large migrating birds such as seabirds were attracted to OWFs at night (Petersen et al. 2006), bright lighting at offshore structures such as oil and gasplatforms is known to attract migrants, particularly in poor weather, resulting in high collision numbers for some species, particularly passerines (Ronconi et al. 2015 Hppop et al. 2016 Huppop et al., Chapter 7). Experimental use of directional lighting and white lights low in the red spectrum has mitigated such effects at some gas platforms (Poot et al. 2008), although intermittent rather than continuous red lights appeared to make no difference (Kerlinger et al. 2010). These findings may be relevant to both turbines and associated windfarm infrastructure such as substation platforms, although there are no mandatory requirements in relation to birds.;Wind speed and direction are known to influence seabird flight behaviour (Spear  Ainley 1997 Ainley et al. 2015). The flux of migrants through Egmond aan Zee wind farm was greater with tailwinds and flight height was higher than during headwinds (Krijgsveld et al. 2011), potentially increasing collision risk. Northern Gannets showed a similar pattern at Horns Rev (Skov et al. 2012) as did seabirds in general at Thanet (Skov et al. 2018). However, in the Krijgsveld et al. (2011) study, large gulls flew lower with tailwinds and no effects could be demonstrated for small gulls. In a separate study on Lesser Blackbacked Gull, no effects of wind speed on flight height were observed (Corman  Garthe 2014). These variable results suggest that responses to wind speed and direction may be species andor location specific. Moreover, a key factor in relation to wind direction may simply be whether this orientates the turbines perpendicular to the predominant flight path of the birds concerned and thus occupies a greater proportion of the air space. At Zeebrugge, more collisions occurred in this scenario (Everaert  Stienen 2007).