The rotation of the earth exerts strong control over the large scale ocean currents. The motion of the rotating earth implies that a moving object will tend to feel a force perpendicular to the motion, known as the Coriolis force. The fact that the earth rotates also implies that the potential vorticity, that is, the rotation of the water that on earth also includes the earths own rotation, becomes important for how a fluid can move on the earth. For instance, if we try to force water to go over a subsea canyon, the water column will stretch and it will start to rotate owing to the conservation of angular momentum. This rotation will steer the flow in such a way that ocean currentstend to flow along isobaths.;On the rotating earth, it takes about the local rotation, that is 1f, before the currents turn as a result of rotation. Disturbances in the ocean travel with the speed of largescale waves, implying that perturbations can only propagate a certain distance before they are redirected by the rotation. In mathematical terms, the natural length scale of ocean eddies is the distance that an internal wave travels over the inertial period. This is also known as the internal deformation radius or the internal Rossby radius. It is given by;On the rotating earth, it takes about the local rotation, that is 1f, before the currents turn as a result of rotation. Disturbances in the ocean travel with the speed of largescale waves, implying that perturbations can only propagate a certain distance before they are redirected by the rotation. In mathematical terms, the natural length scale of ocean eddies is the distance that an internal wave travels over the inertial period. This is also known as the internal deformation radius or the internal Rossby radius. It is given bywhere the square root is the wave propagation speed of the disturbance and 1f is the timescale, h is the thickness of the upper layer and g (g0, where g is gravity and  and 0 are the densities of the upper and lower layers, respectively) is the reduced gravity of the upper layer.;L is the primary horizontal length scale of the upper ocean variability, and it is the fundamental length scale for the oceanic response to perturbations. Thus, if the disturbance is smaller than this scale the ocean response will be smeared out over the distance described by the length scale. The forcing on the potential vorticity is the curl of the wind stress, written as;This is the horizontal gradient of the wind stress on the sea surface, as previously discussed. Notably, the upwelling is proportional to the curl of the wind stress on a rotating ocean, which in the above formula describes the divergence in the winddriven (Ekman) current. To provide a numerical example, if the wind in a storm at 20 ms or 0.75 Nm2 (see Box 3.2) changes to zero over 500 km, this gives a curl() that is 1.5106 Nm. In a wind farm, 0.2 Nm2 may be measured outside the wind farm from a 10 ms wind and 0.1 Nm2 inside