In a population close to carrying capacity, habitat loss due to displacement could lead to birds being unable to find alternative foraging habitat that is not already fully occupied. Related to this, seabird colony size is considered to be limited by intraspecific competition for food within foragingrange distance from colonies (Furness  Birkhead 1984), highlighting the potential ecological consequences of reducing the foraging habitat available to a specific colony. During the nonbreeding season, seabirds are generally more widely dispersed. Considering their low atsea densities during winter, Dierschke et al. (2017) found it difficult to imagine how interference with conspecifics could reduce the preyintake rate of wintering Redthroated Divers, and consider a depletion of their prey due to increased bird numbers in nonimpacted areas to be very unlikely. Thus, while there is evidence of density dependence (both compensatory and depensatory) affecting seabird populations during the breeding season, there is virtually no mention of such mechanisms occurring during the nonbreeding season, when seabirds are much more difficult to study because of their wideranging distribution (Busch et al. 2015). In this respect, more insight into energy expenditure and time budgets of seabirds during the nonbreeding season would be helpful. Birds spending a large proportion of their daily activity budget on foraging can be expected to struggle to find sufficient food, and are probably not able to buffer against any additional energetic costs of displacement effects (Dierschke et al. 2017).;The assessment of relative habitat quality is also key to assess displacement impacts on seabirds. Birds tend to occupy highquality habitat first, and spill over into poorquality habitat when all optimal habitat is fully occupied (Newton 1998). Displacement from highquality habitat would therefore lead to redistribution of birds into poorquality habitat, with implications for individual fitness and survival, compared to displacement from areas of poorquality habitat, which is anticipated to have less impact (Furness 2013 WarwickEvans et al. 2018).