There is a certain irony that extensive survey programmes, especially for birds, expanded what was often poor knowledge of the abundance and distribution of birds likely to be present in areas proposed for development. For example, surveys across Liverpool Bay in the west of the UK crystallised the importance of this area for wintering Common Scoter and Redthroated Diver Gavia stellata (Anonymous 2009), ultimately leading to the establishment of the internationally important Liverpool Bay Special Protection Area (SPA) (JNCC 2017) and the initial relocation of the Shell Flat site, which was ultimately rejected over concerns over interference withdefence radar and lowflying aviation (4C Offshore 2018). Similarly, surveys for the London Array led to the realisation of the importance of the Thames estuary for wintering Redthroated Divers (Goodship et al. 2015). While the first phase of the London Array was built (until recently the largest operational OWF in the world), its expansion was cancelled owing to uncertainty over whether monitoring would reveal a negative effect upon divers within the SPA (Harvey 2014). This followed the earlier rejection of Docking Shoal over projected cumulative effects on the North Norfolk Coast SPA population of Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis, again following an extensive survey programme (DECC 2012).;Sitebased Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and especially Habitat Regulations Assessment (HRA), where European protected sites were thought likely to be affected by development, have often relied on outputs from predictive assessment tools such as modelling of noise, collision risk and population trends (DECC 2012 Thompson et al. 2013 Cook  Masden, Volume 4, Chapter 6). From the developers perspective, multibillion pound investment has thus often hinged on uncertain predictions, the need to demonstrate a lack of reasonable scientific doubt in relation to any conclusions reached and fitting within the precautionary principle. This last factor, in particular, is difficult to define and the level of precaution adopted may vary according to the perceived sensitivity of the receptor species and the context of the site.;Any uncertainty and relative lack of information has not constrained development, however, as after the slow start described above, development has been rapid in recent years. By the end of 2017, a total of 4,149 turbines had been connected to the grid in 92 OWFs in the North and Baltic Seas (Wind Europe 2018). Clearly, many national regulators in northwestern Europe have been sure that consented sites do not represent a significant risk to any wildlife either in isolation or in a cumulative capacity. The fact that very few wind farms have been rejected as a result of potential impacts upon wildlife, invariably on birds, could be testament to good planning in the first place (debated by Kppel et al., Volume 4, Chapter 9) or could mask a more fundamental lack of understanding of the actual effects of OWFs. In this context, Green