Overall avoidance rates can only be backcalculated from collision risk models where flight movement, including flight height, and fatality data are collected simultaneously and the differing contributions of macro, meso and microavoidance are well understood (Cook et al. 2014). Avoidance rates calculated previously for seabirds and reviewed by MacArthur Green et al. (2013) have not always met these requirement. For example, data on the microavoidance rates for tern and gull species at Zeebrugge (Everaert  Stienen 2006 Everaert 2014) were generated using passage rates collected over a shorter period than fatalities, and the authors themselves noted that the results should be treated with caution. However, if treated as microavoidance rates they are inline with those calculated at Thanet (Skov et al. 2018).;Cook et al. (2014, 2018) identified nine sites (Table 9.1) where mortality and bird movement data had been collected with sufficient spatial overlap to derive empirical microavoidance rates and used standard methods to calculate them using different options of the Band collision risk model (Band 2012). Where appropriate, these were combined with macro and mesoavoidance rates calculated from other wind farms to produce an overall avoidance rate. Rates were calculated for individual gull species and gulls as a species group. In the UK, all statutory advisers have agreed the use of the avoidance rates from this study with the Band collision risk model (Band 2012) in relation to European Herring Gull, Lesser Blackbacked Gull and Great Blackbacked Gull (99.5 for the basic model and 98.9 for the extended model excepting Herring Gull at 99). Rates for Blacklegged Kittiwake and Northern Gannet have also been agreed based on this work, although empirical rates could not be calculated (JNCC et al. 2014). This has been helpful in reducing conflict between developers, conservation advisers and the regulator.;The key question about the above study is whether rates derived from evidence collected at terrestrial wind farms reflect reality offshore. In fact they appear to be conservative. Empirical avoidance rates calculated at Thanet (Skov et al. 2018) by combining macro, meso and microavoidance avoidance rates derived from bird tracks within the operational wind farm concluded the following rates which could be applied to all versions of the Band (2012) collision risk model Northern Gannet, 99.9 Blacklegged Kittiwake, 99.8 European Herring Gull, 99.9 Great Blackbacked Gull, 99.6 and Lesser Blackbacked Gull, 99.8. All rates were estimated plus or minus two Standard Deviations. This study represents a major step forward in terms of understanding empirical rates of offshore avoidance and collision and, whilst the data have some limitations because they are from a single wind farm, collected mainly during daylight hours and the birds present are not necessarily breeding birds, they suggest that the avoidance rates used until now have been conservative. However, they have yet to be reviewed by the UKs statutory nature conservation advisers.