Of all the environmental effects associated with human activities in the sea, such as OWF development, a significant amount ofattention has been paid to how acoustic emissions (noise), which propagate over many kilometres in the lowfrequency range, may affect fish (Gill et al. 2012a Hawkins  Popper 2016). Fish live in a highly acoustic medium and most species are readily able to hear and respond to underwater noise (Slabbekorn et al. 2010). Some taxa are highly sensitive for example, clupeids (herring Clupea spp. and their allies) use sound to coordinate the movement of schools (Popper 2000) and gadoids (cod Gadus spp. and their allies) use sound in reproductive behaviour (Hawkins  Popper 2016).;Energy emissions into the coastal and offshore environment occur not only in the form of underwater sound, but also in the much less understood form of electromagnetic fields (EMFs), thermal emission in the form of heat, and light and radiation. The last two types are not considered relevant energy emissions from OWFs hence, they are not referred to any further in this text.;The earth is surrounded by natural EMFs from external sources such as the sun and interstellar space and internal sources from the earths core and mantle. Furthermore, seawater is a highly effective electrical conductor and movement through the natural magnetic sources creates localised EMFs that can propagate over tens of metres (Gill et al. 2014). Fish from many taxonomic classes have the ability to respond to these EMFs and utilise them in relation to diurnal or seasonal migration, such as in the case of anguillid eels and salmonids, or, like elasmobranchs, to use them to orientate within their local environment or to find prey (Collin  Whitehead 2004 Gill et al. 2014).;In terms of heat emitted, it is predicted that fish may associate with a heat source, although the transmission through the seabed and water column is expected to be a matter of centimetres. How fish may use thermal cues in their environment remains a highly uncertain topic in relation to OWFs and their biological effects on fish.