Avoidance distance is a welldeveloped concept and is routinely measured onshore (Htker 2017). A key factor determining avoidance distance for birds temporarily resident in an area when breeding, on stopover or wintering is likely to be resource availability (Perrow 2017). Where resources are limited and there is no suitable habitat nearby, birds may be forced to tolerate various forms of human disturbance, including potentially any caused by wind farms regardless or whether of not this affects survival or reproductive success (Gill et al. 2001). In contrast, where resourcesare available elsewhere, birds may readily avoid disturbance and be displaced, perhaps without significant costs to fitness. A good example of different responses by the same population of birds according to the available resources is the strong avoidance of wind farms by wintering Barnacle Geese Branta leucopsis where resources are plentiful in Germany, compared to greater tolerance of wind farms on staging grounds in Sweden, where food resources are more limited (Percival 2005). There does not yet appear to be a good example of this differential response for offshore sites.;The fact that some birds show greater tolerance of wind farms in some locations is the basis of habituation, a phenomenon defined as a form of learning by an individual that ceases to respond to a stimulus after repeated exposure (Htker 2017). Habituation can only be conclusively demonstrated where birds can be individually recognised, as in the current crop of Global Positioning System (GPS) telemetry studies (Thaxter et al. 2017 2018), although it may be strongly implied for longlived species, with what appear to be the same individuals using the same area. Increasing use of an area over time could also illustrate a cultural change in the population, driven, perhaps, by the progeny of birds that showed more tolerance. So far, the best example of possible habituation appears to be that of Petersen  Fox (2007), where up to several thousand Common Scoters began using the Horns Rev 1 wind farm 4 years after its construction. It was previously thought that Common Scoters were likely to be displaced from wind farms. It is possible that this was linked to an increasing food resource of bivalve molluscs (see Colonisation and attraction, below). This may also explain why other seaduck such as Common Eider, with a similar diet, show an inconsistent or indifferent response to operational wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8).;Avoidance distance is an important concept, as where this is greater than half of the distance between turbines, 100 displacement would result and the abundance of birds within the wind farm should decline to zero. Equally, it may be possible to increase the porosity of a site to seabirds, especially those commuting to and from foraging grounds and colonies, by increasing turbine spacing to more than double avoidance distance. This could provide useful mitigation of any barrier effects (Harwood