Rather few published studies have analysed whether porpoises occur in higher or lower numbers within operational OWFs. In 2005 and 2006, Diederichs et al. (2008) investigated the presence of Harbour Porpoises in the Danish OWFs of Horns Rev 1 and Nysted 1 by passive acoustic measurements using TPODs. No differences inside and outside either wind farm could be detected. Moreover, in Horns Rev, no difference between porpoise detections at different distances from single turbines could be found and this wind farm did not seem to influence the presence of Harbour Porpoises at all. In comparison, at Nysted, only a weak effect was found betweendifferent distances of the TPODs from single turbines, with more recordings farther than 700 m compared to less than 150 m. This effect was only apparent when no additional variables that could also affect Harbour Porpoise activity were included in the analysis. In 2006, a shutdown of the Nysted wind farm for a week for maintenance did not lead to changes in the utilisation of the wind farm by Harbour Porpoises (Figure 6.10).;Figure 6.10 Presence of Harbour Porpoises along four transects of TPODS inside (left) and outside (right) of the offshore wind farm Nysted, Denmark, in weeks before and after a shutdown of turbines (week 0, red bar).;Nevertheless, there did appear to be an effect on the 24hour cycle of Harbour Porpoise recordings. Especially in 2005, a pronounced diurnal rhythm was noted, with most recordings during the night close to single turbines in both wind farms. A converse pattern was observed at more than 900 m away from single turbines during the day at Horns Rev, when a maximum of porpoise recordings was recorded. No clear pattern between day and night could be found more than 700 m away from single turbines in Nysted, however. Moreover, in 2006, the diurnal pattern changed in both areas and the differences between the distance groups was no longer very pronounced. Differences in the diurnal cycle of Harbour Porpoise activity were thought to reflect differences in the fish community close to single turbines. Overall, it was concluded that operational OWFs are regularly incorporated into Harbour Porpoise habitat.