The use of windturbine foundations as functional habitat varies with fish species. Small benthic species such as gobies (Gobiidae) and wrasses (Labriidae), or juveniles of other species, appear to benefit from the shelter afforded by the matrix of colonising and encrusting organisms, such as Blue Mussels Mytilus edulis and macroalgae (Bergstrm et al. 2013). Furthermore, a number of these species may gain from enhanced feeding conditions due to increased benthic productivity, as well as the higher flux of plankton close to the sea surface while sheltered by the turbines (Figure 5.5). Meanwhile, foundations are likely to function primarily as feeding habitats for larger mobile and pelagic species (Klima  Wickham 1971 Buckley  Hueckel 1985). De Troch et al. (2013) attempted to estimate the importance of food resources to explain the tendency of Atlantic Cod and Pouting to aggregate around turbines. Stomach analyses indicated that these fish primarily fedon the amphipod Jassa herdmani and the Porcelain Crab Pisidia longicornis located on the turbines, and energy profiling suggested that the turbines constituted patches of relatively favourable feeding grounds for the species.;Offshore wind turbines provide habitat for a number of species and can aggregate fish assemblages and alter the local fish community structure, as represented by the increase in biomass of the different trophic groups, changes to energy transfer and the increased complexity of the trophic linkages (Figure 5.5). As suggested by the increased connectivity in Figure 5.5, local biodiversity can therefore be expected to increase through the presence of typical reef dwelling fish in areas otherwise largely devoid of hardbottom habitat. The consequent effect on the production of fish biomass is, however, unclear. Although fish may reproduce and grow on and around the turbines, this may simply represent an aggregation of the bioproduction of that species, and the association with turbines may not lead to net added production over the wider area owing to the conditions being more favourable for survival, growth rates andor reproduction compared with alternative and natural habitats. For some fish species that are clearly limited in terms of distribution and abundance by the availability of reef habitat for refuge, territory, food and behavioural requirements, and for heavily fished and vulnerable species, the habitat and protection provided by wind turbines may serve as total biomass enhancers. This is, however, considered to be of little relevance at the population level for most species (Bohnsack 1989 Wilhelmsson 2009), although the importance of this is likely to depend on the location, spatial scale and time schedule of OWF development.;OWFs may also influence local predatorprey dynamics. Below the surface in the surrounding benthodemersal zone, several species appear to be attracted to and benefit from the physical presence of turbines, whereas local abundances of other species may be negatively affected. It has been suggested that the densities of some benthic prey items can decrease with proximity to artificial structures owing to predation by fish attracted to and resident on