This chapter aims to present a unifying synthesis of the effects and impacts of offshore wind farms upon the different trophic levels of marine life, from seabed communities and fish to marine mammals and seabirds, as well as migratory birds and birds passing over the sea, derived in the previous chapters in this volume. Most information originates from northwestern European waters, the current focus of offshore wind. The installation of turbines and scour protection affects local coastal processes and ocean dynamics, with potential for the windwake effect to generate upwelling over considerable areas, thereby affecting biological productivity. During construction, noisy pile driving may displace sensitive fish and marine mammals and some seabirds. Return may be rapid, although the fish prey base of a breeding seabird was affected in one case. After construction, rapid colonisation of hard surfaces by species such as Blue Mussels occurs. The reef effect, with aggregation of fish including large predators, thereby attracting marine mammals and some seabirds, is generally seen as positive. The displacement of seabirds from operational wind farms is species specific, with divers and Northern Gannet the most sensitive, and has implications for individual fitness. Collision of birds such as gulls is rarely recorded, although sampling such events is technically difficult. Further evidence is required to address concern regarding possible collision of migratory birds and bats. Cumulative effects have barelybegun to be addressed and little targeted research has yet been conducted to detect populationscale impacts. In essence, wind farms are likely to induce a number of topdown or bottomup cascading effects through the food web via diverse mechanisms, which can only be understood through integrated ecosystembased research. Until knowledge gaps are filled, uncertainty should be embraced by avoiding possible conflict through careful site selection to achieve the ultimate goal of a winwin for wind energy and wildlife.;Offshore wind is of increasing importance for countries with a coastline on our fundamentally blue planet, mainly covered in sea, which offers a huge resource of potential renewable energy. Recent technological advances, especially with regard to larger turbines, ease of installation and the advent of floating wind, coupled with the reduction of costs, mean that offshore wind has come of age  and is now a mainstream source of lowcarbon electricity, at least in Europe (Jameson et al., Chapter 1). Thus, offshore wind is an increasingly important component in the strategy to curb climate change, which is widely perceived to be a key threat to many ecosystems and the wildlife that they support (IPCC 2014).;At the time of writing, it has been 27 years since the installation of the first offshore wind farm (OWF), the 11turbine 4.95 MW Vindeby wind farm in the Danish part of the Baltic Sea, in 1991. The growth of offshore wind was slow at first, with a few small sites in Denmark and Sweden followed by the Netherlands, and then the first sites in Round 1 of development in the UK during the early years of the current millennium (Jameson et al., Chapter 1). Sufficient time has passed that some early generation sites, including Vindeby, have now been decommissioned (Offshore Wind 2017). Onshore, there was a lag in understanding the effects of wind farms on wildlife until Orloff and Flannery (1992) described the potential scale of impacts upon birds of prey at Altamont Pass, California. Perhaps learning from these experiences, early intensive studies at OWFs focused on migratory waterbirds and seabirds