Furthermore, even with high avoidance rates, provided there are enough passages, collisions may build up over time. For example, after 7 years, a total of 49 Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla had been killed at the 68turbine Smla wind farm (see Box 8.4 inde Lucas  Perrow 2017). It is not inconceivable that some similarly kselected seabirds with low reproductive output over long lifespans may be at risk, and this may only be determined by detailed monitoring of key species at specific sites. The choice of which species to concentrate on is often framed within first principles of the type of bird involved and its likely behaviour, especially flight behaviour, vulnerability to additional mortality and level of conservation concern. These considerations spawned the sensitivity index (King, Chapter 9), first with Garthe  Hppop (2004) and subsequently with Furness et al. (2013). The latter, in particular, produced ranked lists of birds susceptible to both collision and displacement separately, producing different arrangements of species. This links with the fact that collision and displacement are more or less mutually exclusive, in that displaced birds cannot collide.;Thus, the evidence to date suggests that, as onshore (Htker 2017), naturally wary species showing a high degree of aversion, such as waterfowl, are at little risk (see Disturbance and displacement, above). In the study by Desholm and Kahlert (2005), less than 1 of the flocks of migrating Common Eider and geese were close enough to the turbines to be at any risk of collision. Raptors represent the other extreme to waterfowl in that they are fearless and often indifferent to the presence of turbines (de Lucas  Perrow 2017), although there is also evidence of displacement in some circumstances, perhaps especially on migration (Johnston et al. 2014). At sea, however, migrating raptors may be attracted to wind farms, perhaps as they may appear to offer refuge during the challenges of crossing the open sea (Skov et al. 2016). The potential for collision of raptors is further exacerbated by how their eyes work (reviewed in Perrow 2017). For example, scavenging Gyps vultures have a small binocular region and large blind areas above, below and behind their heads (Martin et al. 2012). A typical head position when foraging would allow scanning of the ground as they search for food and extensive lateral coverage to check out conspecifics in flight, and would shield the eyes from the sun, but with the key disadvantage that the birds would be blind in the direction of travel (Martin et al. 2012).