Recent advances in, and better affordability of, Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking technologies have offered increasing possibilities to assess the likely impacts of offshore wind developments on seabirds (e.g. Thaxter et al. 2015 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4) (Figure 8.8). While boatbased and aerial surveys are limited to specific time frames and conditions such as daylight and a favourable sea state, GPS tracking allows continuous monitoring of an individual birds behaviour over the full tidal and diurnal cycle in all weather conditions. Owing to the detailed information on flight directions and heights, it allows monitoring of bothvertical and horizontal responses of individual birds towards offshore turbines. On the other hand, the behavioural detail of foraging activity and subtle responsive changes in flight height and direction may be limiting when using GPS tracking. For highly detailed monitoring of behavioural responses, visual tracking of individual birds with a fastmoving rigidhulled inflatable boat (Perrow et al. 2011 Harwood et al. 2017) or advanced camera systems installed inside OWFs have proven to be promising tools (Skov et al. 2018). GPS tracking is particularly effective in defining atsea foraging movements of seabirds, which is fundamental to understanding their ecology and the potential impact of OWFs (Garthe et al. 2016 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4). A key advantage of GPS tracking is that the birds involved are of known provenance and status as a result of capture, whereas boatbased or aerial surveys do not allow discrimination of breeding from failed and nonbreeding birds (Perrow et al. 2015). The applicability of tracking data in windfarm impact assessments is highlighted by their use in individualbased models to determine the effect of displacement on adult body condition and chick survival (Searle et al. 2014 WarwickEvans et al. 2018). GPS tracking may also reveal habituation to wind farms as repeated tracking of the same individuals may help to identify changes in the birds responses over time to existing wind farms (Garthe et al. 2016). A continuation of the widely applied tracking of seabirds may eventually also reveal general displacement levels by means of a prepost construction comparison of distribution and habitat use. Thaxter et al. (2015) showed that changes in food availability may alter the behaviour of birds between years and even through the course of a single breeding season. As this may lead to the use of alternative foraging areas and different commuting patterns, the movements of birds need to be characterised over longer periods to fully appreciate the potential for variation in seabirdwindfarm interactions. For a full review of tracking seabirds in this context, see Thaxter  Perrow (Volume 4, Chapter 4).