A thorough understanding of the ecological drivers affecting spatiotemporal variation in seabird displacement levels is considered crucial for a reliable impact assessment of planned wind farm projects, highlighting the need for widescale and longterm monitoring research. Equally important, however, is the assessmentof the ecological consequences and cumulative impact of widescale offshore wind exploitation on seabird population levels, as quantifying this impact is the actual and ultimate goal of all past, present and future research on seabirdwindfarm interactions.;The aim in this chapter is to provide a thorough review of existing empirical knowledge on OWFinduced displacement of seabirds. As a starting point, the authors consulted the detailed review paper by Dierschke et al. (2016), bringing together the results of seabird displacement studies at 20 operational OWFs in northwest European waters. The methodology applied by Dierschke et al. (2016) was revisited to formulate speciesspecific conclusions on displacement. While the postconstruction study results collected at the Luchterduinen and Greater Gabbard OWFs were added, some of the studies used by Dierschke et al. (2016) were not included because a few are not publicly available and, in the authors view, others have too limited numerical information to allow a reliable interpretation or verification of the reported conclusions. The authors further consulted their own literature database, including peerreviewed as well as grey literature, and performed a thorough internet search to look for possible knowledge gaps. The internet was scanned using Scholar Google and Google, using keywords such as seabird, displacement, avoidance, offshore wind and cumulative impact both singly and in combination alongside targeted species names. Geographically, this chapter focuses on results gathered in northwest European marine waters for the obvious reason that very little (if any) postconstruction research has yet been conducted outside this region. Furthermore, the focus is on the effects of operational OWFs rather than on construction activities, because the latter are rather short term compared to a wind farms operational phase. As will become clear as the chapter continues, most research has aimed at assessing the responses of seabirds to OWFs, measuring levels of avoidance or attraction, but very few have tried to quantify the actual consequences of the observed changes on seabird energetics or demographics. An