It should be stressed that even though an observed change is reported as significant it does not guarantee the observed change oreffect to be true andor undoubtedly attributable to the suspected source of impact. A change or effect is regarded as statistically significant when it is considered highly unlikely to occur by sheer coincidence, a consideration that is based on a number of assumptions. Most importantly, it assumes that all relevant sources of variation affecting the response variable, but also the data distribution of the response variable itself, are correctly accounted for. Not doing so may result in a poor estimate of the effect andor its confidence intervals and falsely assigning an observed change in numbers to the presence of an OWF. In the same sense, it should be highlighted that a significant effect should only be interpreted in the statistical sense of the word, and does not inform us about the actual extent or consequences of the observed effect. That is why, in the present analysis, a change or effect of more than 50 was classified as strong avoidanceattraction regardless of its statistical significance, as opposed to Dierschke et al. (2016), who increased this threshold to 80 for changes or effects without statistical evidence. Significant results were thus not treated as more important or any different from results without statistical support. The overall score for a species sensitivity to displacement was then calculated as the arithmetic mean of all classification scores of the included studies.;This exercise led to the results shown in Table 8.2, which was sorted according to the mean classification score. In the case of auks, summarising values are based on all classification scores recorded for unidentified auks as well as Common Guillemot and Razorbill Alca torda. Species with a mean score of 4.0 or more are coloured green and can be considered to be attracted to OWFs, while species with a score of 2.0 or less are coloured red and were generally found to avoid OWFs. This raw classification coincides with good consistency in the results, as all green species show scores from 3 to 5, while all red species show scores of 1 to 3. In between the green and red groups, there is a grey zone containing species that show inconsistency in displacement results, ranging from avoidance in some places to attraction in others, apart from the consistently indifferent Common Eider Somateria mollissima.