Although collisions may be recorded using a range of increasingly sophisticated equipment (Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5), quantification of the actual number of offshore collision victims is not yet possible. However, four main conclusions may be tentatively drawn from the very few mortality studies to date (1) Newton and Little (2009) concluded from carcasses found along shorelines adjacent to a nearshore wind farm that at least 16.521.5 birds collided per year and turbine, although the great majority of these were seabirds, especially large gulls (2) the type of anthropogenic offshore structure that is, an isolated and illuminated, static platform compared to an array of wind turbines with rotating blades, can affect the total number as well as the species composition of collision victims (Hppop et al. 2016) (3) the number of collision victims probably decreases with increasing distance from the coast and (4) high numbers of collision victims can be expected at sites where migration concentrates, such as marine straits or close to peninsulas, not only of nocturnal migrants but also of (large) raptors (Skov et al. 2016). In Europe, night migrating passerines, especially thrushes, Common Starlings, European Robins Erithacus rubecula and Eurasian Skylarks Alauda arvensis, and vireos, kinglets, and wood warblers in North America,suffer the highest risk of collision with offshore structures (Box 7.1). This impression can change with geographic location of the offshore structure, as well as with season and distance to the coast.;The collision risk to bats at offshore wind turbines remains extremely difficult to assess. While the overall risk to individual populations may ultimately be low, there is evidence that the presence of tall vertical structures in an otherwise open environment may serve as an attractant and may pose distinct seasonal migration risks (Ahln et al. 2009 Cryan  Barclay 2009 Cryan et al. 2014a). Furthermore, the risks to birds and bats may rise in the future with the expected increase in the overall height and volume of the rotor swept zone (Deign 2018).;Wind turbines off the coasts of Europe currently provide the main proportion of global offshore wind capacity. It is thus not surprising that most knowledge on the effects of anthropogenic offshore structures on migrating birds and bats has come from past and ongoing investigations in Europe. However, the overall pattern of responses to OWFs as well as of the main influencing factors on offshore migration and collision risk may hold true on a global scale despite obvious variations in migration routes and offshore species group compositions. Our everevolving toolbox of remote monitoring and assessment technologies, particularly those involving advanced radars, nanotag telemetry, acoustics and infrared (both thermal and light supported), and highdefinition imageries, as well as advanced analytical software, all hold promise for better understanding the potential risk of offshore wind energy facilities to bird and bat populations (Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5). Proper implementation of these tools and techniques will help us to recognise seasonal periods and environmental conditions when the risk to individual species or species groups may be most elevated. Those findings, in conjunction with the adoption of a true adaptive operational management strategy, could thus lead directly to a significant reduction in mortality risk to birds and bats in the offshore environment.