There have been several attempts to determine possible population impacts of OWFs, all focusing on the responses of marine mammals to underwater noise from pile driving. For example, Thompson et al. (2013) described a framework to assess populationlevel impacts of disturbance from piling noise on a protected Harbour Seal population near to proposed windfarmdevelopments in northeast Scotland. They used models of seal distribution combined with models of noise propagation to estimate received sound levels integrated with data on potential impacts to infer displacement and auditory injury. These impacts were linked to possible changes in vital rates using expert judgement and applied to population models under different construction scenarios. Although the authors acknowledged the inherent uncertainty in the adopted approach, the results suggested that, despite shortterm reduction in abundance during and immediately after construction, the following recovery resulted in no clear difference between impact and baseline scenarios after 25 years.;Moreover, two different approaches to possible population consequences of pile driving have been developed, namely the Interim Population Consequences of Disturbance (iPCoD) (King et al. 2015 Harwood et al. 2016) and Disturbance Effects of Noise on the Harbour Porpoise Population in the North Sea (DEPONS) (van Beest et al. 2015). Although both models simulate population dynamics based on the birth and survival rates of individual animals, they model survival in a different ways. Whereas iPCoD uses average survival rates derived from data from North Sea animals, in the DEPONS model, survival emerges from the individuals ability continuously to find food. The models also differ in the way they model the consequences of exposure to noise and the kinds of output they can provide (NabeNielsen  Harwood 2016).;While the DEPONS model focuses on Harbour Porpoise, iPCOD (King et al. 2015 Harwood et al. 2016) incorporates stage structured stochastic population models for five species, comprising Harbour Seal, Grey Seal, Harbour Porpoise, Bottlenose Dolphin and Common Minke Whale, in UK waters. Attempts were also made to capture major sources of uncertainty in model parameters. Population models were run to forecast the effects of planned developments on the dynamics of populations over a specified number of years. The models can be used to investigate the effects of multiple developments under different scenarios, including cumulative effects of several developments, and incombination effects, including mortality associated with incidental bycatch.