Among migratory nonseabirds, work by Skov et al. (2016) showed that migrant raptors crossing the Baltic Sea were significantly attracted to a wind farm during adverse wind conditions, akin to the island effect behind the attraction of landbirds to small islands (or boats on a very small scale), whereby birds seek rest and shelter. Hppop et al. (Chapter 7) also suggest that nocturnally migrating passerines in particular may be attractedto lit wind farms, in the same manner as documented for a variety of illuminated structures around the coast and onshore. But whether migrant bats are as attracted to wind farms as they are on land, for a variety of possible reasons (Barclay et al. 2017), remains unclear as yet, largely as a result of a lack of studies. The attraction of any volant species to wind farms carries an increase in collision risk (see Collision with turbines, below).;Collision with turbines is seen as the most serious effect of wind farms as it almost invariably involves the death of the individual concerned. Birds generally collide with moving blades, although collision with the tower has been recorded (see Box 11.1 in Perrow 2017). Bats suffer both collisions with blades and barotrauma, whereby internal organs and blood vessels are ruptured as a result of the pressure differences associated with rapidly moving blades (Barclay et al. 2017). Onshore, collision studies are advanced and aided by the potential for the recovery of collision victims and an understanding of the factors influencing that recovery, which allows estimates of collision rates of both birds and bats to be made with reasonable confidence (Huso et al. 2017). This has revealed large variation in collision rates of zero to 125 birds per turbine per year, with this distilled down to an average of around four birds per turbine per year from 24 intensive studies across the world (de Lucas  Perrow 2017). The rate for bats is similar, at two bats per turbine per year in Europe (sample of 40 sites) and 3.7 bats per turbine per year in North America (Barclay et al. 2017). The numbers of bats estimated to be killed by turbines globally per year runs into the millions and is concentrated on relatively few species, suggesting that at least some species of bats are particularly vulnerable to population impacts. A similar case has been made for some raptors among birds (Perrow 2017). Part of the vulnerability of bats lies in that they are often attracted to turbines within wind farms for a range of possible reasons (Barclay et al. 2017). It is not yet clear whether migratory bats especially are attracted to offshore turbines in a similar way (Hppop et al., Chapter 7).