Windfarm service vessels are designed to travel relatively quickly and thus they may be expected to pose a higher risk than slower vessels. However, there appear to be no reports of instances or strandings which might hint at collisions with service vessels. In UK wind farms, the restriction of the use of vessels with ducted propellers, over concern that these were contributing to Harbour Seal mortalities where animals had corkscrew wounds, proved to be unfounded as predation by Grey Seal was shown to be responsible (Onoufriou et al. 2016).;With respect to both disturbance through noise and collision risk, servicing a wind farm invariably leads to additional ship traffic in an area between the wind farm and a nearby port. This ship traffic may pass areas of high value for marine mammals and marine protected areas. This factor has not usually been addressed in EIAs, but should be considered in future.;The physical presence of turbine bases and associated structure such as scour protection, coupled with other OWF infrastructure such as substations (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1), has a range of effects upon coastal processes including changes in water flow and sediment transport (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2) as a result of the presence of the structures themselves and any altered seabed topography. Moreover, changes in atmospheric conditions and air pressure above the sea surface are predicted to lead to significant changes in ocean dynamics, including upwelling of nutrients affecting biological productivity (see Brostrm, Chapter 3). However, little is yet known of these potential effects compared to the change in plant and animal communities resulting from the rapid colonisation of those structures present producing the so called reef effect (Leonhard et al. 2006 Petersen  Malm 2006 Linley et al. 2007). The initial colonisation of species within lower trophic levels is quickly followed by larger invertebrates such as crabs and lobsters and small fish, thereby attracting larger predatory fish (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) and potentially top predators such as marine mammals or seabirds (see Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). In some cases,