Modelling by Adams et al. (2014) reinforced the notion that wind farms could operate as ecological stepping stones for hard substratum species with pelagic larvae, thereby allowing range expansion including of climate migrants responding to climate change. On a positive note, such species may include vulnerable native species that are currently range restricted, but with the downside that some invasive species may also be favoured, including those without pelagic larvae that may be deposited through the use of attendant vessels that may be inadvertently carrying such species, including in ballast water. Any concern about the spread of invasive species does not appear to have been realisedas yet, although this is reliant on suitable, continued monitoring (Dannheim et al. Chapter 4 Dahlgren et al., Volume 4, Chapter 1).;The natural softsediment communities, dominated by benthic deposit feeders such as polychaetes, bristleworms and sea urchins, that were originally present at the windfarm site may be influenced on a local scale as a result of localised scour (Rees  Judd, Chapter 2), providing sinks of organic material with new microhabitats, and by the rain of organic material from the dense epifauna on the turbine foundations (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). Otherwise, the number of taxa, total abundance and biomass may vary little between reference areas outside the wind farm and areas within the wind farm (Gutow et al. 2014). Dannheim et al. (Chapter 4) also make the important point that sediment communities within the wind farm may flourish and develop where commercial fishing, particularly the destructive attention of trawls, is restricted, typically as a result of health and safety concerns about towed fishing gear snagging cables and other structures. As a result, the regeneration of reefbuilding Ross Worms Sabellaria spinulosa and attendant species has been noted at a number of sites in the UK. Thus, wind farms may provide important refuges for otherwise vulnerable habitats and species.;The refuge principle extends to mobile demersal fauna such as large crabs and fish. At Alpha Ventus, commercially important Edible Crab Cancer pagurus reached densities several orders of magnitude higher on windfarm foundations than on the surrounding sediments (Gutow et al. 2014). While this may provide a refuge from exploitation in most localities, at Sheringham Shoal, local pot fishers are allowed into the wind farm to take crabs and lobsters Homarus gammarus. Although the general restriction of commercial fishing may favour the aggregation of larger predatory fish, rodandline anglers may be attracted to wind farms in the same way as they are attracted to wrecks and rigs, as a result of the prospect of large specimens of valuable sport species such as Atlantic Cod and European Bass Dicentrarchus labrax. Reubens et al. (Chapter 5, Box 5.1) showed the importance of wind farms as habitats for Atlantic Cod, with tagged individuals being highly sedentary and persisting throughout the summer and autumn foraging period, before moving away in winter, potentially to