Figure 5.3 Schematic representation of the electromagnetic fields (EMF) associated with a subsea cable. Direct electric (E) fields, induced electric (iE) fields and magnetic (B) fields are shown, and wave magnitudes indicate the relative size of the EMFs with distance from the cable, in relation to (a) EMFs are associated with an unshielded cable (b) a highvoltage direct current (HVDC) cable including the shielding, which contains the Efield, whereas iEfields occur as the fish (or seawater) moves through the EMFs and (c) a highvoltage alternating current (HVAC) cable, with three cores that allow the AC to flow following a typical sinewave pattern of transmission within each cable core. An asymmetric Bfield is emitted from the interacting cores, causing a rotational Bfield which induces its own iE field. Not to scale. (Reproduced from Gill 2012b, with permission from Elsevier);Electromagneticsensitive species come from across many taxa, although there is a paucity of knowledge, on a restricted number of species, on how they respond to anthropogenic electric or magnetic fields compared with natural bioelectric or geomagnetic fields (Normandeau Associates et al. 2012). Of those that are potential receptors of OWF EMFs, magneticsensitive species are considered as those with a significant migratory phase in their life history, such as salmonids, and electrosensitive species with electroreceptor apparatus, including elasmobranchs (sharks and rays), Acipenseridae (sturgeons) and Petromyzontiformes (lampreys). Only limited studies have been conducted on the responses of sensitive fish species to subsea cables. Nevertheless, there are demonstrable responses which appear to be variable, and hence no determination of any significant impact can be made without further research (Gill et al. 2014).;Heat is emitted during the transmission of electricity and if the cable is buried in sediment it is known to raise the temperature by a few degreesto tens of degrees Celsius, depending on the power rating in the cable and the length of time for which it is operating at maximum transmission (Worzyk 2009). There is no available evidence of any effects of thermal emissions on fish but, hypothetically, fish may respond at a very local level. Any impact would probably be indirect, via changes to the benthic infauna as a consequence of the sediment that they inhabit increasing in temperature. There is evidence of a greater abundance of