To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgements and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results and Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over the two volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whereas others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides a 300word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themes provide the main body of the text, generally divided into as few subheading levels as possible. Division between effects during construction and operation was generally avoided as this increased the number of subheadings and led to an unwieldy structure. Any clear differences in effects between different stages of windfarmconstruction and operation are incorporated into specific sub headings.;As well as being liberally decorated with tables, figures and especially photographs, which are reproduced in colour courtesy of sponsorship by Vattenfall, most chapters also contain Boxes. These were designed to provide particularly important examples of a particular point or case, or to suffice as an allround exemplar and standalone from the text. In a few cases, these have been written by an invited author(s), on the principle that it is better to see the words from the hands of those involved rather than paraphrase published studies. My sincere thanks go to all 27 chapter authors and 3 box authors for their contributions. I take any deficiencies in the scope and content in this and its sister volume to be my responsibility, particularly as both closely align to my original vision, and many authors have patiently tolerated and incorporated my sometimes extensive editorial changes to initial outlines and draft manuscripts.;Finally, it needs to be stated that with the current epicentre in northwestern Europe in the North and Baltic Seas, the coverage of this book could not be global. However, as the offshore wind industry develops at almost breakneck speed in a great range of countries, I hope the information and experiences gleaned from the pages of this book can be applied in a global context with the proviso that applying any lessons learned to marine systems elsewhere on the planet would need to be accompanied by specific research to account for any inevitable differences in the ecological structure and functioning of those systems. Hopefully, this book is a further step towards the sustainable development of wind farms and the ultimate goal of winwin1 scenario for renewable energy and wildlife.;1 Kiesecker, J.M., Evans, J.S., Fargione, J., Doherty, K., Foresman, K.R., Kunz, T.H., Naugle, D., Nibbelink, N.P.  Niemuth, N.D. (2011) Winwin for wind and wildlife a vision to facilitate sustainable development. PLoS ONE 6 e17566.