However, the coastal wind farm at Zeebrugge has had detectable effects upon several species of terns at the scale of the regional population (Everaert  Stienen, Chapter 9, Box 9.1). This reinforces that even a single wind farm or development area could have an impact on a particular population, as has been seen onshore. Nevertheless, the prospect of populationscale impacts intuitively increases as incombination and cumulative effects grow (see In combination and cumulative effects, above), as was clear from the few modelling studies cited by Vanermen  Stienen (Chapter 8)demonstrating the potential for populationscale impacts of displacement upon sensitive birds such as divers.;For migratory nonseabirds of a wide range of groups as well as bats making crossings over the open sea, the overall risk to individual populations may ultimately be low (Huppop et al., Chapter 7), although the evidence base on which to make this judgement is currently small to nonexistent. For the better studied migratory waterfowl such as geese and ducks, which tend to display strong aversion to turbines, there seems little prospect of population impacts, even on small populations of conservation concern. But for raptors, the attraction to a wind farm observed by Skov et al. (2016) provides the basis for concern. Passerines may suffer high collision rates in some cases, especially as a result of attraction to illuminated structures under adverse weather conditions, but even relatively high losses locally seem unlikely to be significant for these typically rselected species with high reproductive turnover and relatively low survival rates. For bats, the real risk to populations is unknown, especially considering the considerable mortality of bats seen onshore (Barclay et al. 2017). Important factors could be the proportion of the population crossing the sea in areas with a high density of turbines, and whether offshore turbines are as attractive to bats as they are onshore.;In relation to marine mammals, Nehls et al. (Chapter 6) stress that species with small populations compared to widely dispersed species with large populations, are more likely to suffer effects from wind farms, although no study has yet demonstrated a population impact. In a similar vein to seabirds, a number of modelling approaches are now available to determine potential population impacts from effects on individual vital rates, typically as a result of noise from pile driving (see Incombination and cumulative effects, above). The iPCoD model (Harwood et al. 2016) includes two species of seals and three species of cetacean, which is particularly useful considering that the empirical evidence base of effects on cetaceans is mostly limited to Harbour Porpoise, which typically suffers shortterm displacement during noisy construction, but with a more variable and ambiguous response to constructed sites. The potential for opposing effects is also neatly illustrated by seals. In one population of Harbour Seals, Hastie et al. (2015) estimated that