The configuration of cables within an OWF includes the intraarray forming circuit and one or more cables forming the export to the onshore electricity grid. Depending on windfarm design, one or more offshore substations and converters may also be included in the intraarray cable network.;The effects of cables on physical processes are wholly dependent on their dimensions and the methods used to install them. Cables are laid in trenches in soft sediments that will disturb surficial sediments and associated biota, or laid across the surface on hard substrates, which could cause some localised abrasion to the seabed. Cables laid on the surface may require protection with rock or concrete mattresses. The trench or any protection and the associated effects will be 25 m wide. The cables linking the individual wind turbines are several hundreds of metres in length (intraarray), whereas the cables to shore or export will be several kilometres or tens of kilometres in length. In Germany, the longest export cable to date is 125 km from Borwin Alpha to UW Diele. Cables are laid in an almost continuous length from specialised equipment towed by seagoing vessels. Cables are buried using a plough or trencher, or a jetting device which releases water under pressure to cut the trench. Typically, intraarray cables are ploughed for the majority of the route and a jetting technique is used for the last few metres to the Jtube on the monopile.;Where cables cross other cables or pipelines, or where potential seabed conditions allow exposure or the ploughing tool did not reach the designed burial depth, rock dumping or concrete mattress protection may be required to protect the integrity of the cable from trawling or anchoring for example. Rock dumping material and the associated effects can be very similar to scour protection around foundations and typically consists of material with a mean size of approximately 10 cm.;Within the various designs of OWFs, chemicals are used for a variety of purposes in the turbine and foundation pieces as well as offshore substations (Table 2.1). Also included are chemicals used