The assessment of incombination effects for birds reveals some of the inherent issues encountered when undertaking assessment. Here, the two principal effects, collision and displacement (but see Foodweb and indirect effects, above), are often thought to be more or less mutually exclusive (see Disturbance and displacement, above). This is unlikely to be completely true, however, as a result of individual variation in response according to a number of factors. Thus, part of the population may be displaced while the remainder is potentially at risk of collision. Any failure to consider in combination effects can then be linked to the difficulty of combining effects as a result of the different metrics produced. For example, collision results in a loss of individuals from the population, whereas displacement is judged as an effect on aproportion of the population. To allow integration, the effect of displacement needs to be translated into relevant population parameters such as survival or reproductive output. By making some assumptions, particularly in relation to prey distribution and energy intake and provisioning rate, Searle et al. (2014) were able to develop models to determine the population consequences of displacement from the effects upon individuals, which were later used in Appropriate Assessment (one stage of the HRA process) of the Forth and Tay wind farms (Marine Scotland 2014). Humphreys et al. (2015) further outline the options in integrating the impacts of collision and displacement in an ecologically and statistically appropriate manner for seabirds.;Cumulative effects, herewith described as the combined effect of one wind farm with others, were raised as being of importance in all the taxabased chapters (see Table 10.1). The more obvious cumulative impacts are associated with the readily definable reef effect of turbines. For example, Slavik et al. (2018) were able to quantify the biomass and thus filtering capacity of Blue Mussels likely to be produced by current and proposed wind farms in the North Sea. A similar exercise could conceivably be undertaken for other colonising fauna and even for some fish species such as Atlantic Cod that show distinct patterns of distribution, if not abundance, as a result of association with wind farms (see Reubens et al., Chapter 5, Box 5.1). Moreover, although the cumulative impact of numerous large wind farms as a result of upwelling from the windwake effect is not known, in theory it is likely to be considerable in terms of ocean productivity (Brostrm et al., Chapter 3), with positive impacts of increased production of forage fishes that feed seabirds and marine mammals. Both the windwake effect and particularly the reef effect may even be of socio economic importance to humans.;In contrast, there is growing concern over cumulative negative impacts of displacement for a number of bird species, especially divers, which have a clear negative response to wind farms (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). Studies cited byVanermen  Stienen predicted cumulative effects of up to a 5 loss in habitat, up to a 5 decline in breeding success and up to a 2 decline in adult survival. Although quantifying the impact of direct losses of