The energy of tides, waves and currents can suspend seabed sediments into the water column and transport them as bedload or suspended load in the direction of flow. When the water flow increases, sediment particles can be lifted into suspension. Conversely, when water flow slows down, sediment particles can no longer be supported and are deposited on the seabed or coastlines. The hydrodynamic effects of artificial structures will impede or enhance water flows, in that increased flow speeds could lead to sediment erosion (scour) and decreased flow speeds could lead to sediment deposition. Waves and currents, and hence sediment transport induced by these forces, can vary by several orders of magnitude and are strongly influenced by prevailing physiographic conditions and consequently climate change, owing to thevariability of tidal elevations, waves, winds and temperature.;The combination of variables influencing tides, waves and currents as hydrodynamic and coastal processes can impact on local sediment transport in the near field of the structure concerned, whether this is a rock outcrop on the seabed or the foundations of a wind turbine or offshore substation or accommodation platform, or at sites farther afield along the coastline. In this context, near field is defined as within the array licensed boundary with a buffer of the local tidal ellipse centred on the turbine structures (spring tidal excursion), whereas far field is likely to be either at the outer limits of the tidal excursions within which the structure is located or, if there is an active connection of the processes, within adjacent overlapping tidal excursions, where there is the potential for effects to spread beyond a single spring tidal excursion. While the coastlines can naturally be highly dynamic, impacts from offshore structures under certain conditions have the potential either to reduce or to increase the wave climate inshore, thus modifying coastline erosion or deposition patterns. This also applies to habitats within a wind farm and along prevailing wave and tidal axes.;A typical offshore wind farm (OWF) consists of three main elements the foundations and associated turbine, the electrical intraarray, and export cabling. Some developments will also have an offshore substation (or substations) with foundations in the seabed, especially if located some distance from the electrical grid. Different foundation options are available for OWFs, including monopiles, micropiles, gravity or caisson bases, jackets, suction buckets and floating structures (Box 2.1). The towers for offshore wind turbines vary in size depending largely upon the generating capacity of the turbine and local ground conditions. Monopile foundations typically increased from 4 m diameter in 2004, such as the Scroby Sands wind farm in the UK (Rees 2006), to 6.5 m diameter by 2015, such as the Riffgat wind farm in Germany (ASCOBANS 2014). Monopiles of 8.1 m diameter have been proposed in Environmental Statements, such as the Hornsea 1 OWF in the UK with 7 MW turbines, with future projections of 15 m diameter for planned 15 MW turbines. The foundations and towers ultimately support the nacelle and horizontally rotating blades, although verticalaxis turbines have been tested (Jameson et al.,