The key pieces of legislation covering the protection of nature and biodiversity are the Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG) and Offshore Installations Ordinance (SeeAnIV). The BNatSchG sets guidelines regarding protected areas, including Natura 2000 sites, biotopes and species. SeeAnIV regulates procedure throughout the lifetime of an OWF, from authorisation to construction and decommissioning. The competent authority is the Federal Maritime and Hydrographic Society of Germany (BSH), and the German Standard for Environmental Impact Assessments (StUK), published by the BSH, sets out mandatory requirements for EIA and monitoring of offshore wind installations. The highest priority for the German regulatory system is to minimise the impact on the natural environment (BSH  BMU 2014), which includes prescriptive requirements for protection of certain species that must be adhered to by law. For example, while the consenting regime in most countries requires piling noise during foundation installation to be minimised as far as possible to protect marine mammals, in Germany there is a specific requirement to stay below 160 dB sound exposure level at 750 m from the source. To achieve this, a number of experimental noisemitigation techniques have been tested and continue to be tested to develop a solution that can achieve these specific requirements, such as the AdBm noiseabatement system, which was tested at the Butendiek wind farm in 2014.;A further example of the commitment to monitoring is provided by the Alpha Ventus project, originally named Borkum West OWF, the pioneering project in German waters that was approved in 2001. A grant of 5 million from the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) enabled the German Offshore Wind Energy Foundation to buy the rights to the wind farm in 2005. The site was subsequently leased to Deutsche OffshoreTestfeld und Infrastruktur, a consortium of the energy utilities EWE, Vattenfall and E.ON. A fiveyear research project accompanied the wind farms construction and operation to evaluate the BSH StUKplus. The results of this research on oceanographic processes, benthic communities, fish, seabirds, migratory birds and marine mammals are presented in a book (BSH  BMU 2014) and reflected elsewhere in this volume (see Brostrm et al., Chapter 3 Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Hppop et al., Chapter