Taiwan has abundant wind resources along its west coast, with the installed capacity of 8 MW in 2017 coming from demonstration sites (see Hu 2013). To meet the requirements of Taiwans nuclear phaseout policy framework, the government has set a development target of at least 3.5 GW available for feedin tariff and a maximum 6.5 GW of offshore wind power by 2025. In the short term, by 2020, the aim is to see 520 MW built out in Taiwanese waters. A high feedin tariff price draws the attention of heavyweight offshore wind developers however, those policy targets also come with multiple challenges that increase project uncertainty. Once the permitted capacity is over the 3.5 GW available for the feedin tariff, developers will be invited to participate in a bidding competition.;According to the rules announced by the Bureau of Energy, all potential developers must go through an EIA process to secure the rights to develop a specific wind farm. The main environmental receptor of note in Taiwan is the Chinese White Dolphin Sousa chinensis, and the need to limit the impacts on this species has led to the downscaling of most offshore wind projects. Developers also need to go through a selection process with a certain percentage of local content as a requirement. The Taiwanese government has set a high local industry development strategy of 71, but the details are unclear. In addition, a lack of health, safety and environmental standards, working vessels, substation sites and grid connections may increase the burden of offshore wind development in Taiwan.;Taiwan has the same environmental threats as Japan, namely earthquakes and tropical cyclones that frequently visit the island. The highest standards of design, manufacturing and installation are necessary to ensure that both the developers assets and the countrys electricity supplies are protected under such conditions. Grid connection is another challenge, as generation tends to be focused in particular geographic areas, leading to network constraints. Most projects are crowded along the coastal areas of Chang Hua County, while most of 20 GW photovoltaics projects are located around Yun Lin County, Chang Hua County and Chia Yi County nearby. The main grid operator, Taipower, is exploring several solutions to ease the load tension between both wind and