Offshore wind has come of age since the turn of the millennium and is now a mainstream source of lowcarbon electricity, at least in Europe. Decoupling from subsidy dependence remains key, but rapid technological development and exploitation of ever more favourable generating conditions have vastly improved competitiveness in a very short period. This chapter draws on the personal experience of the authors to address some basic questions What makes an offshore wind farm (OWF)? What are the key components and activities involved? And how is it legislated and regulated? This chapter documents the development and consenting process and outline issues for consenting in a range of different countries in Europe and in key developing markets elsewhere in the world. By necessity, a highlevel approach is adopted as the reality is an assortment of sitespecific and conflicting complexities. The majority of offshore wind developments are sited in European waters, with more than 3,500 turbines concentrated in the North and Baltic Seas contributing close to 14 GW of the 16 GW global total. While, at the time of writing in 2017, the UK is the global leader, Denmark and Germany follow closely behind. Deployments in China and more recently Japan, Taiwan, the Republic of Korea and the USA are increasing. Industry knowledge and experience in project delivery and regulation have had to improve rapidly tofacilitate the expansion of offshore wind. Selecting an appropriate site to deploy an OWF is a critical step as it can potentially avoid or reduce potential impacts on sensitive species, particularly seabirds and marine mammals, as well as other marine users. The monitoring of wildlife at operational wind farms has helped to reduce some of the uncertainties regarding environmental interactions. The lessons learned must be shared as new markets evolve to avoid curtailment of offshore winds contribution to decarbonisation.;The movement away from reliance on fossil fuels and the global challenge to decarbonise electricity generation continue to gain momentum. The expansion of offshore wind in the twentyfirst century has achieved unprecedented levels of competitiveness, making it a mainstream supplier of lowcarbon electricity (Hundleby et al. 2017). Historically, wind farms began to move offshore in the early 1990s with a number of limitedcapacity, nearshore projects such as Vindeby (4 MW, 1991) and Tun Knob (5 MW, 1991) in Denmark Irene Vorrink (16.8 MW, 1996) in the Netherlands and Blyth (4 MW, 2000) in the UK. These projects were early demonstrators and deployment did not truly take off until the turn of the millennium. Yet, at that time, only a handful of European countries incentivised offshore wind and so opened the door to the next generation of largescale projects, such as Utgrunden (2000, 10 MW) and Middelgrunden (40 MW, 2000) in Swedish and Danish waters, respectively North Hoyle (60 MW, 2003), Scroby Sands (60 MW, 2004) and Kentish Flats (90 MW, 2005) in the UK and Egmond aan Zee (108 MW, 2006) in the Netherlands. This move was principally driven by technological developments allowing the exploitation of more favourable offshore wind resources, and an increasingly favourable political climate surrounding offshore wind.