The sensitivity of seals in relation to hearing impairment from underwater noise is considered to be much lower than that of cetaceans, and in phocids such as Harbour and Grey Seals the thresholds for the onset of TTS and PTS is estimated at 170 dB SEL and 185 dB SEL (Mweighted), respectively, which is 30 dB higher than that for highfrequency cetaceans. Such noise levels will only be recorded close to a piling operation (Box 6.2 and Box 6.3). However, tracking of Harbour Seals and auditory modelling by Hastie et al. (2015) in relation to the constriction of wind farms in the Greater Wash in the UK predicted SELs resulting in high risks of auditory damage, with all seals predicted potentially to suffer TTS and 50 to have PTS on a number of occasions. Such effects havethe potential to influence individual fitness and the ability to function normally, with the prospect of consequences on seal populations.;Harbour Porpoises and other marine mammals often respond aversively to anthropogenic noise, with the response becoming stronger with increasing noise levels. Responses of marine mammals to anthropogenic noise sources are variable and depend not only on noise strength, but also on the characteristics of a noise source and the context of the disturbance (Ellison et al. 2011). Although pile driving creates a relatively uniform noise, the different hearing abilities of marine mammals and likely different sensitivities mean that there is no uniform response by different species. As a result, cetaceans, specifically Harbour Porpoises, and seals are considered separately below.;Most knowledge on the response to pile driving originates from studies on Harbour Porpoise in the North Sea. The first OWFs in Denmark and Germany caused effects on Harbour Porpoise over a large range. Reduced porpoise activity was recorded up to a distance of about 20 km during and shortly after piling (Tougaard et al. 2009a Brandt et al. 2011 Haelters et al. 2012 Dhne et al. 2013 Diederichs et al. 2014). This corresponds with the suggestion of Bailey et al. (2010) that behavioural disturbance of Bottlenose Dolphins could similarly occur over large distances (up to 50 km) in relation to the piledriving of two 5 MW turbines installed in the Moray Firth in northeast Scotland. However, the early projects involving Harbour Porpoise were constructed without noise mitigation and additional aspects of the construction work may have contributed to the strong response. For example, at Alpha Ventus OWF in Germany, piles were first vibrated up to 9 m into the substrate before being piled with a hydraulic hammer, using between 11,383 and 25,208 strokes lasting for 376802 minutes to install some piles to a depth of 30 m. Piledriving measurements employing a gradient design with acoustic monitoring equipment