 Council Directive 2009147EC on the conservation of wild birds (Birds Directive) and Council Directive 9243EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora (Habitats Directive). These are key pieces of legislation in theregulation of offshore wind in order to meet the obligations of the Bonn and Bern Conventions. The implementation of these directives led to the establishment of the Natura 2000 network of sites, comprising Special Protection Areas (SPAs) for birds and Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) for habitats (EC 2010). EIA of an offshore wind project must detail any likely significant effect on the integrity of a designated site.; In the Netherlands, the Nature Conservation Act states that an appropriate assessment has to be conducted for developments such as an OWF located within or deemed likely to have significant effect on the Natura 2000 area in order to evaluate the likely effect of the development on the conservation objectives of Natura 2000 areas. If the negative effects are considered to be not significant a permit can be granted. If considered significant despite any proposed avoidance or mitigation measures, then according to Article 6(4) of the EU Habitats Directive, consent can only be granted if there is no acceptable alternative solution and there are imperative reasons of overriding public interest and compensatory measures have been secured. If protected species present are judged unlikely to be harmed significantly, an exemption can be provided and development may be consented.  Water Framework Directive (WFD) 200060EC and Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) 200856EC introduced targets for the improvement and sustainable exploitation of aquatic ecosystems and wetlands, and marine waters, respectively.;Responsibility for transposing the requirements of each piece of EU legislation into national law lies with the individual member state. This can lead to conflicting interpretations between countries. Within the southern North Sea, for example, a significant region for offshore wind, there are multiple international marine boundaries within a relatively small area, and the nations within these boundaries each have their own strategy for offshore wind development and interpretation of the EU Directives. As projects grow larger and move closer to these boundaries, transboundary issues may become more significant, with potential consequences