Developers are required to obtain a Development Consent Order from the relevant Secretary of State, and in order to do so must fulfil many preapplication requirements, including detailed EIA and consultation, before undergoing a strictly timetabled examination process via the PINS process, overseen by the Planning Inspectorate (PINS). Although this system is heavily front loaded and resource intensive, it has advantages in terms of planning as, once the application has been accepted, there is a definitive date for determination.;The Scottish system is somewhat different, as there is no set timetable for determination. Consent must be obtained under Section 36 of the Electricity Act 1989 and a Marine Licence awarded under the Marine (Scotland) Act 2010 before a project can be constructed. Developers must also submit an ES in support of their application to meet the requirements of the EIA regulations.;The main consenting issue for many sites within UK waters remains ornithology, and with the number of sites increasing, cumulative ornithological impact is a growing concern. As a result, much attention has been focused on ornithological issues through a variety of research initiatives to improve our understanding of environmental effects. The forerunner of these was the COWRIE initiative. The number of projects and topic areas supported was very wide, including historic environment, coastal processes, fish and seabed communities, and the potential impact of electromagnetic fields (Huddleston 2010). Many projects focused on birds, including the development of standardised survey techniques (Camphuysen et al. 2004) and developing guidance on cumulative impact assessment (King et al. 2009), as well as research on individual species or groups, including assessing the displacement of Common Scoter Melanitta nigra (Kaiser et al. 2002), tracking swans on migration routes (Griffin et al. 2010) and quantifying the use of coastal waters occupied by wind farms by terns (Perrow et al. 2010).