The empirical evidence for similar effects of fisheries exclusion on fish assemblages in windfarm areas is weak. Results from surveys targeting fish assemblages within an OWF area as a whole, including the area between the turbines, in Belgium, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden indicate either increased abundance of some species, such as sandeels (Ammodytidae), Atlantic Cod, Whiting Merlangius merlangus and Common Sole, or no effects (Leonhard et al. 2011 Lindeboom et al. 2011 Bergstrm et al. 2013 Stenberg et al. 2015 Vandendriessche et al. 2015). One cannot exclude, however, that the interpretation of these effects is disguised by a concentration of fish around the artificial structures, which was not picked up by the surveying methods used. Inaddition, the investigated OWF had been in operation for only a few years. While significant increases in fish density and species richness within the NTZ have been recorded after 3 years of protection (Halpern  Warner 2002 Russ et al. 2005 Claudet et al. 2006), other studies have shown that it can take decades before results are effectively measurable (Micheli et al. 2004).;The effect of the limitation of fisheries activity on a fish population as a whole depends on overall fishing pressure, the proportion of the fish population that uses the area, which, in turn, is dependent on speciesspecific fish distribution patterns and wind farm size, and the duration of residence of the fish in the OWF area. For fish that move over larger areas and spend only some of their time within the OWF area, the protection offered is of less significance, whereas more stationary fish assemblages would be likely to benefit more.;Notably, marine management strategies combining protection from exploitation with artificial structures such as those provided within OWFs are increasingly being recognised (Pitcher et al. 2002 Claudet  Pelletier 2004). At the same time, while OWFs that have been designed and sited with no primary focus on conservation or fisheries enhancement appear potentially to provide these functions to varying degrees, the habitats and species protected may not necessarily be of any significance in terms of conservation, restoration or fisheries management, but could be beneficial from an ecological perspective by maintaining or enhancing some ecosystem functions or processes.;Furthermore, larger scale effects of climate change and ocean acidification are likely to cause a shift in the distribution of fish species, hence bringing into question the idea of static protected areas of the sea. OWFs may play a role in combination with other factors, but seem unlikely to provide some of the significant key benefits that are often predicted, although better understanding and the increasing areal extent of OWFs in regional seas may increase this likelihood.