It is, therefore, not surprising that even where intensive studies have been undertaken, there is a dearth of records of actual collisions (King, Chapter 9). At Yttre Stengrund, Pettersson (2005) observed one collision event whereby the tail of a flock of 310 Common Eider snaked into a rotor. Four birds were knocked to thewater, but three flew away and only one was (probably) killed. At Nysted, Petersen et al. (2006) recorded one collision of a small bird (presumably a passerine). The recent Offshore Renewables Joint Industry Programme (ORJIP) study at Thanet off the Kent coast seemingly holds the record for the highest number of collisions in a single study, with six collision victims from November 2014 to June 2016 (Skov et al. 2018). These were all gulls, comprised of one adult Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, one Lesser or Great Blackbacked Gull, two unidentified large gulls and two unidentified gulls. A further key value of the ORJIP study, particularly for the offshore industry and the estimation of collision risk using collision risk modelling within an EIA, has been the calculation of empirical avoidance rates (with SD) for key species (Northern Gannet, Blacklegged Kittiwake, Herring Gull, Great Blackbacked Gull and Lesser Blackbacked Gull), with values ranging from 0.9960.011 to 0.9990.003. These are an improvement on previous estimates of likely avoidance rates for the same species derived mainly from the mortality of birds at onshore wind farms in the case of gulls, including of ecologically dissimilar small gulls as proxy for Blacklegged Kittiwake (Cook et al. 2018).;However, without the benefit of knowing the movements of birds before the site was built, it is difficult to judge whether the presence of birds outside, and thus apparently avoiding the wind farm, is linked directly to the presence of the wind farm itself and not to other factors such as fishing boats, which tend to attract scavenging gulls and may not be allowed within the wind farm (see Disturbance and displacement, above, for further discussion of the benefits of before and after). Moreover, in the ORJIP study (Skov et al. 2018), the birds present appeared to be mostly nonbreeding individuals that may be more readily displaced depending on resource availability (see Disturbance and displacement, above) compared to breeding birds. As the authors recognise, there is also always the limitation of this being a specific site with specific (mainly benign) weather conditions.;Furthermore, even with high avoidance rates, provided there are enough passages, collisions may build up over time. For example, after 7 years, a total of 49 Whitetailed Eagles Haliaeetus albicilla had been killed at the 68turbine Smla wind farm (see Box 8.4 in