At the Belgian Bligh Bank, a beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) monitoring programme was designed to detect seabird displacement following offshore wind farm (OWF) construction in 2010 (Vanermen et al. 2015b 2016). Boatbased seabird counts were conducted according to the standardised and internationally applied European Seabirds at Sea (ESAS) method, combining a transect count for birds on the water and repeated snapshot counts for flying birds (Tasker et al. 1984 Camphuysen et al. 2004). The applied transect was 300 m wide and was counted along one side of the ship. The (future) OWF area was surrounded by a buffer zone of 3 km to define the impact area, where effects of the wind farm on the presence of seabirds could potentially occur. A nearby control area was also delineated, harbouring comparable numbers andsimilar species of seabirds before OWF construction, and showing a similar range in water depth and distance to the coast. The distance between the control and impact areas was kept small enough to be able to survey both on the same day by means of a 50 m research vessel typically travelling at 10 knots.;The Bligh Bank study area was studied intensively from April 2008 to April 2015, incorporating construction activities from September 2009 to September 2010. The survey design comprised four parallel southwestnortheastoriented transect lines spaced 2.5 km apart. In addition, after OWF construction, four closely spaced transects (400 m) through the turbine corridors were surveyed to increase sample size and data reliability within the impact area (Figure 8.3). During the monitoring programme, both control and impact areas should have been visited monthly, but vessels were not always available and planned trips were sometimes cancelled owing to adverse weather conditions such as significant wave heights higher than 2 m andor poor visibility. Before 2008, the study area was also surveyed on an irregular basis, and surveys dating back to 1993 were included in the analysis provided that the control and impact areas were visited on the same day.