In general, the primary reasons suggested for the higher abundance and diversity of fish on and around artificial reefs include enhanced protection from predation and water movements, and increased availability of food as a result of the association of prey fish and invertebrates with the artificial structure, as reflected in Figure 5.5 (Bohnsack  Sutherland 1985 Jessee et al. 1985 Ambrose  Swarbrick 1989 Bohnsack 1989 Grove et al. 1991). Wilhelmsson et al. (2006) speculated that wind turbines may also function as larvae traps, triggering settlement of surfaceoriented fish larvae, a portion of which otherwise may not have made it to suitable shallow coastal habitats. Gravity foundations and scour protection, in the form of rock rubble and boulders placed around the turbines, increase volume and structural complexity, which enhances their function as shelter and feeding grounds for fish. Wilhelmsson et al. (2006) also recorded high densities of several benthic and semipelagic fish around monopoles (Figure 5.6) that were simply driven into the seafloor without scour protection, indicating that these relatively structurally noncomplex foundations may provide sufficient enhancement of conditions to aggregate fish.;The use of windturbine foundations as functional habitat varies with fish species. Small benthic species such as gobies (Gobiidae) and wrasses (Labriidae), or juveniles of other species, appear to benefit from the shelter afforded by the matrix of colonising and encrusting organisms, such as Blue Mussels Mytilus edulis and macroalgae (Bergstrm et al. 2013). Furthermore, a number of these species may gain from enhanced feeding conditions due to increased benthic productivity, as well as the higher flux of plankton close to the sea surface while sheltered by the turbines (Figure 5.5). Meanwhile, foundations are likely to function primarily as feeding habitats for larger mobile and pelagic species (Klima  Wickham 1971 Buckley  Hueckel 1985). De Troch et al. (2013) attempted to estimate the importance of food resources to explain the tendency of Atlantic Cod and Pouting to aggregate around turbines. Stomach analyses indicated that these fish primarily fed