Innovation in offshore wind technology is critical to the effectiveness of cost reduction measures and improved reliability during operation. However, before a project is built, a relatively long development and consent process is required to ensure that all potential impacts pass rigorous environmental and planning procedures, governed by legislation and in accordance with best practice. This process can take up to a decade before consent is awarded (Freeman 2014). From a developers perspective, thisrepresents significant risk and uncertainty as future innovation in technology, which could significantly reduce costs and environmental impacts, could become available by the time a project receives consent. Consequently, a project envelope (or Rochdale envelope) approach has been successfully adopted into UK, Dutch and Danish offshore wind development programmes to provide the necessary flexibility to futureproof or hedge against stateoftheart components and systems such as larger and more efficient wind turbines, by the time major contracts are placed. The project envelope is highly iterative and allows developers to work towards finding an optimal design that is both technically feasible and commercially viable at the time services are procured from the supply chain. During the impact assessment stage, developers are required to define a set of project design parameters based on expected technical options that allow the realistic worst case to be assessed. These are mainly for the bigticket items such as wind turbines, installation vessels, cables and foundations, installation techniques and the like, but can also include bespoke solutions for projectspecific environmental or technical issues. Without this flexibility built into planning, the alternative could result in a suboptimal site design and higher cost per megawatt and, ultimately, prevent the project from delivering the lowcost electricity generation necessary to compete in a subsidy auction.;Fortunately, project envelope designs have so far proven to be sufficiently wide enough to ensure that projects are futureproofed. However, a potential shortcoming to the envelope approach is the need for developers to seek the widest possible envelope design to insulate the project from any future uncertainty. Given that developers rarely build out their maximum project envelope design, the significance of cumulative impacts predicted during the planning rarely reflects the reality once the wind farm is built. This can negatively impact the ability of a neighbouring wind farm developer to achieve consent for their future development. In 2012, the UK Government refused permission to consent to Docking Shoal offshore wind farm (OWF) (540 MW) based on predicted cumulative impacts on Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis. At the time, two other nearby OWFs, Race Bank and Dudgeon, were also seeking consent to build. The then Department for Energy 