Brandt et al. (2016) used the iPCoD model to estimatedisturbance consequences of windfarm construction on the population level based on the results from aerial survey data and C POD data obtained during the construction of seven OWFs in the German Bight. Using conservative input parameters for construction effects arising from the study, thereby increasing the chances for the model to predict a population decline, the risk of a decline of 1 of the population in the German Bight was estimated to be below 30. The predicted median decline is below the 1 generally considered as critical for all chosen time periods, and varies between 0.9 for the piling period and 0.2 for 12 years after piling had finished.;As a result, there were no indications for such a population decline of Harbour Porpoises over the fiveyear study period arising from analyses of daily CPOD data and aerial survey data at a larger scale. Despite extensive construction activities over the study period and an increase in these over time, there was no negative trend in acoustic porpoise detections or densities within any of the subareas studied. In some areas, CPOD data even detected a positive trend from 2010 to 2013. Even though clear negative shortterm effects (12 days in duration) of OWF construction were found on acoustic porpoise detections and densities, there is no indication that Harbour Porpoises within the German Bight are negatively affected by windfarm construction at the population level. This is despite soundmitigation techniques still being under development during the study period and further improved thereafter.;A major uncertainty about predicting marine mammal responses to pile driving is the fact that responses have only been measured through animal densities or acoustic activities in relation to piling events. However, new tracking technologies allow researchers to take a much closer look at individual behaviour and an animals responses to loud sound sources (van Beest et al. 2018), and will improve the input data for models analysing population impacts.