The use of such IBMs in combination with Global Positioning System (GPS) tracking data proves particularly promising. Searle et al. (2014) modelled the population consequences of displacement for five seabird species, namely Northern Gannet, Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactyla, Common Guillemot, Razorbill and Atlantic Puffin Fratercula arctica breeding at four SPAs (Forth Islands, St. Abbs Head, Buchan Ness and Fowlsheugh) in the proximity of proposed OWF developments along the eastern coast of Scotland. Bird distribution was estimated based on the results generated by GPS loggers deployed on birds from all four SPAs during the chickrearing phase. The impacts of displacement on population size were considered to operate via reduced body mass of adults leading to lower survival, specifically in the following winter, with the assumption that any current breeding attempt may be abandoned, and reduced survival of offspring during the breeding season. The model simulations indicated a possible declinein adult survival of almost 2 for the Blacklegged Kittiwakes originating from the Forth Islands SPA, and a decline in breeding success of almost 5 for the Atlantic Puffins breeding in the Forth Islands SPA. For the latter, caution is needed because Atlantic Puffin distribution was inferred from GPS data of only seven birds, which on top of this may have suffered from tag effects (Harris et al. 2012). Searle et al. (2014) further stress that the model presented includes a number of assumptions that would benefit from parameterisation with local data, in particular prey distribution, behaviour of seabirds in response to OWFs, including habituation, and the relation between adult body mass and subsequent survival.;WarwickEvans et al. (2018) too developed a spatially explicit IBM based on GPS tracking data to investigate the potential impacts of five OWF developments in the English Channel on the body mass, productivity and mortality of breeding Northern Gannets at Alderney. Model simulations indicated that the windfarm installations under study should have little impact on the population, in relation to both avoidance behaviour and collision risk scenarios. To have populationlevel impacts, OWFs would need to be ten times larger or be located in more highly used areas.;All the modelling studies documented show that cumulative displacement effects can potentially have consequences for individual fitness, which may ultimately lead to seabird population declines. The models still rely on numerous assumptions on crucial aspects such as relative habitat quality and densitydependent mechanisms, and predicted changes should therefore be considered to be indicative of potential impacts rather than being seen as definitive predictions (Topping  Petersen 2011).