50 of individuals would experience permanent threshold shifts in hearing with consequences for foraging ability and social interactions, whereas individuals in the same population were also shown to intensively exploit constructed wind farms in the area as foraging grounds (Russell et al. 2014) (Figure 10.1), and presumably benefit as a result.;Finally, it is clear from the pages of this volume that there are many examples of positive increases in populations of many species as a result of wind farms, largely tied to the reef effect. The scale of the prospective population increase in Blue Mussels in the southern North Sea is predicted to be so large as to be of ecosystemscale functional significance (Slavik et al. 2018). Similarly, many species from anemones to crabs to small benthic fishes (Figure 10.6 and Figure 10.7) will have undergone or will undergo population increases. Although wind farms may be important habitats for fish such as Atlantic Cod and Pouting Trisopterus luscus (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5 in this volume), it remains unclear whether wind farms have the potential to significantly increase the populations of such species, rather than simply redistribute and aggregate the larger adults in particular. Populationscale effects may depend on the enhanced survival of significant numbers of adults to influence population fecundity.;Even in isolation, an OWF may have a range of what may be seen as negative, neutral and positive effects on wildlife. As development continues, any effects will magnify in a cumulative context. In terms of generally positive effects, wind farms may exert a strong artificial reef effect by creating new habitat for colonising hard substratum species and, in turn, providing prey and habitat for mobile invertebrates and fish. As such, wind farms may become biodiversity hotspots (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). This provides a case to retain the bases even following decommissioning of a site in a renewables to reefs initiative, although retention is also favoured by the technical difficulty of removing bases in the first place. Conceptually, the value of wind farms as reefs may be further