The development of offshore wind energy is projected to increase in scale and distribution around the world although seabird collision is perceived as a major ecological risk. This chapter aims to review the existing evidence of seabird collision and avoidance at offshore wind farms (OWFs) and, where this is unavailable, at onshore and coastal turbines. It finds that few collision studies have been undertaken at constructed OWFs and empirical evidence of collision of seabirds is rather limited. However, both onshore and offshore, gull species are the most regularly reported collision victims followed by terns at coastal and onshore sites. A case study of tern mortality shows that this may be significant. In general, emerging evidence suggests that seabirds tend to avoid offshore wind farms at a range of scales with empirical avoidance rates now calculated at above 99. This is well above the original default rates based on land birds at onshore wind farms. A review of the factors influencing collision risk, including speciesspecific and windfarm specific factors and general location, showed that the percentage of time spent flying at collision risk height appears to be most important. In this case, as technology advances with larger turbines, the proportion of birds at risk height is likely to reduce. A review of the seabird sensitivity indices developed to understand the vulnerability of individual species to collision, and to identify collision risk in sea areas where development may be planned, concludes that they are most useful to identify species for impact assessment and as a strategic planning tool. They may also help toidentify species and areas to take forward for further research and monitoring. However, their use of proxy measures of vulnerability and the limited empirical basis are limitations. Updating these resources with new evidence is recommended. In general, there is an urgent need for more research on the evidence of seabird behaviour and collision effects within and around constructed wind farms at sea to build on findings to date. This would enable planning decisions to be more evidencebased and offshore wind development to proceed within wellunderstood and ecologically sustainable limits.;Offshore wind farms (OWFs) are a major intervention in the marine environment and are perceived as a potential collision risk to seabirds. This is particularly so if they are located close to breeding colonies or along a migrationdispersal flyway where effects from a number of wind farms may accumulate. The increasing number and size of consented and constructed OWFs, the increasing capacity of the turbines and their deployment farther from shore mean that the scale of potential collision mortality has become an important criterion in the planning consent process.;Additional mortality is a concern for longlived species such as seabirds, many of which are of conservation importance and some of which are undergoing rapid declines (Paleczny et al. 2015 JNCC 2017). Their high adult survival rate, low productivity and delayed breeding may make them vulnerable to even relatively small increases in adult mortality with consequent effects on population stability (Tuck et al. 2001 Everaert  Stienen 2007 Igual et al. 2009 Reid et al. 2013). These same aspects of their life history and ecology mean they are at risk from other anthropogenic effects such as fisheries bycatch, disturbance or predation at the colony and climate change (Tuck et al. 2001 Croxall et al. 2012 Burthe et al. 2014). As a result, there are concerns that the effects of OWFs, including collision, may exacerbate the situation.