Migration of bats over the sea seems to be relatively predictable when viewed in context with specific weather parameters (Figure 7.4). Low wind speeds, low illumination by the moon, and dense cloud cover were the main predictors of bat occurrence at a remote North American island (Cryan  Brown 2007). In addition, most registrations of bats at an illuminated offshore research platform in the North Sea coincided with rain, fog, or low stratus (Hppop  Hill 2016). Since records of bats in this longterm study were generally lower than at comparable sites in the North Sea, that is, on the offshore island of Helgoland (Skiba 2007 O. Hppop, unpublished data), the authors concluded that a significant proportion of passing bats may not have been recorded because they flew at higher altitudes than detectable by the recording system (Hppop  Hill 2016). This assumption, in combination with the behaviour of the bats at the platform, as inferred from their recorded echolocating signal, implies that at least some bat species seem to be attracted by illuminated offshore installations forforaging or temporary refuge (Hppop  Hill 2016). At a nearshore wind farm in the Baltic Sea, bats have been observed to change their flight altitude to actively feed close to the turbine blades (Ahln et al. 2009). This considerably increases the risk of collisions.;Current technical and logistical limitations (Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5) restrict our ability to directly study collisions of birds and bats with offshore wind turbines. During four seasons, Petersen et al. (2006) recorded 17 thermal video sequences automatically triggered by passing animals at a single turbine in the offshore wind farm at Nysted, Denmark. Of these 17 sequences, two were bats and overall, only one bird or bat was observed to fall following collision with the rotating turbine blades (Petersen et al. 2006).;The occurrence of migratory birds and bats and their behaviour at anthropogenic offshore structures depends on a variety of environmental conditions and is strongly species or speciesgroup specific. Mostly under good visibility, some waterfowl show a strong aversion to OWFs (Desholm  Kahlert 2005 Plonczkier  Simms 2012). Their behaviour during poor visibility is, however, largely unknown. Although Plonczkier  Simms (2012) carried out radar observations 24 hours a day, the assignment to species was possible only by visual observation during the daytime. In contrast, Skov et al. (2016) suggest that raptors, which generally avoid sea crossings, may be attracted to OWFs in adverse wind conditions. Moreover, many nocturnally migrating songbird species and presumably also (some) bat species are attracted by illuminated offshore structures, at least under some circumstances. One might speculate that this also holds true for offshore wind turbines. It is of note that seabirds show a similar range of response from strict avoidance by divers, Northern Gannet, and some auks, to attraction by some gulls and cormorants (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8).