The direct physical loss of habitat for softbottom dwelling species owing to the installation of wind turbines and scour protection typically represents a small percentage of the whole windfarm area as a result of each turbine only claiming up to a few hundred square metres. Although the ecological footprint can extend beyond the physical structures, any changes in the significance of the original benthic community structure of the surrounding seabed may be relatively localised (Ashley et al. 2014). The key change is that portions of the seabed are replaced by hard bottom substrata in the form of submerged foundations and predominantly rock scour protection of offshore wind turbine bases with a larger total surface area than the lost softbottom patches (Figure 5.4). It is anticipated that this availability of new substrata will influence the nature of the benthic community and thus thelinked aspects of the composition, production and dynamics of the fish assemblage. The structures will also cause changes in the path of the prevailing water current accompanied by the potential for vertical zonation on the structures by tidal movements (Figure 5.4) and redistribution of sediment transported outside the windfarm boundaries, all with ecological consequences for fish.;By their very nature, windfarm structures constitute small artificial reefs, providing new habitat for a number of sessile and motile colonising marine species, although they differ in substrate type, shape, time of submersion, and thereby also community composition, from natural reefs (Wilhelmsson et al. 2010 Ashley et al. 2014). Accumulated evidence suggests that artificial reefs generally hold greater fish densities and biomass, and provide higher catch rates, compared with the surrounding softbottom areas, and in many cases also in relation to adjacent natural reefs (for references see Wilhelmsson et al. 2010).;Worldwide, artificial reefs are constructed and deployed in coastal waters to manage fisheries, mitigate damage to the environment, protect and facilitate the rehabilitation of certain habitats or water bodies, or increase the recreational value of an area (e.g. Milon 1989 Wilhelmsson et al. 1998 Jensen 2002, Claudet  Pelletier 2004 Seaman 2007). Urban structures constructed primarily for other purposes in the sea, such as pier pilings, oil platforms, breakwaters and wind turbines, also serve as habitats for fish and invertebrate assemblages and were defined as secondary artificial reefs by Pickering et al. (1998).;Knowledge on the association between fish and wind turbines is slowly growing and highlights that fish are attracted to the structures (Figure 5.6), which leads to questions about how ubiquitous this association is for each marine wind turbine or wind farm and whether there are differences over time. The general grouping of fish and their position in the water column, such as pelagic and demersal species, and how trophic and predatorprey interactions may change in an area as a result of the installation of an OWF, are shown in Figure 5.5. Several benthic (bottomdwelling)