Seabird avoidance rates, calculated from landbased data, have proved higher than previously anticipated at around 99 or above. The minimum empirical avoidance rate calculated at Thanet OWF was 99.6, confirming this direction of travel and indicating that rates are higher than previously permitted. Revised guidance may therefore be necessary. Nonetheless, if these values are to be verified and calculated for a greater range of species there is a need for further studies at OWFs in which fatality, passage rate and flight height data are collected simultaneously (Cook et al. 2014, 2018 Skov et al. 2018).;In relation to the factors which influence collision risk such as time spent flying at rotor height, flight speed and nocturnal activity, many of the data come from birds at sea in general and, while useful in understanding seabird ecology and behaviour, more information from behaviour within wind farms is clearly needed. The Thanet study has provided a useful indication of at least some of the species and factors which should be monitored offshore in future although there is still little evidence of how general wind farm location and sitespecific factors affect collision. The trend towards fewer, larger, more widely separated turbines with a greater rotor clearance above sea levels will, at least theoretically, mitigate risk, perhaps even to a significant extent (Figure 9.5).;The development of seabird sensitivity indices in relation to collision risk has been most useful in respect of marine spatial planning decisions at a strategic level and for identifying particular species at risk. They converge in their identification of gulls as the main species group at risk of collision. However, they include many proxy factors or those based on or bird preconstruction behaviours and distributions. While this is a pragmatic approach based on the available data, postconstruction monitoring is a vital requirement to understand the real risks to species and whether generalisations can be applied (May 2015). Such indices should be updated as evidence emerges.;In the absence of more empirical data, uncertainty about the true scale of collision and other effects on seabirds will remain, potentially making the planning and consenting of OWFs more extended, complex and risky (Masden et al. 2015). However, collision or avoidance monitoring is rarely required as a consent