This chapter examines how offshore wind farms (OWFs) may cause changes to the prevailing hydrodynamic and coastal processes, including changes to seabed morphology and sediment transport and to water and sediment quality. Physical effects can be attributed to the physical presence of OWF infrastructure and the techniques used to install these structures. Chemical effects can be attributed to the substances such as biocides, corrosion inhibitors and cements used in construction and maintenance. Both physical and chemical effects have the potential to affect habitats and species. Here, evidence from both grey and peerreviewed literature is used to describe the nature and scale of any effects, both individually and cumulatively. Different foundation designs using monopile and gravitybased structures provide two extreme scenarios. Despite a limited body of evidence, understanding of the physical and chemical impacts of monopile and gravitybased structures of individual OWFs is reasonably sound. Material is divided between themes exploring physical processes and local changes to seabed conditions, including scour and scour protection, cabling and cable protection and chemicals. Effects characterised from observations, models and measurements may be split into construction, operation and decommissioning phases. This evidence shows that physical effects are predominantly in the near field for tides, sediment transport and chemical factors that is, within one spring tidal ellipse of the structure supporting the turbine. In contrast, wave modelling studies have shown that impacts canextend beyond the near field. Insufficient evidence is available to draw conclusions on the cumulative physical and chemical effects that is, overlapping effects within one tidal ellipse or the aggregated effect from effects within multiple tidal ellipses. Observations and measurements have yet to identify any significant effects of chemicals from OWF construction or operation.;Structures in the marine environment have the potential to change hydrodynamic and coastal processes (Carroll et al. 2010). Hydrodynamic and coastal processes are defined as physical processes on water and the substrate. These physical processes include; Tidal elevations. Periodic rise and fall of sea level caused by gravitational and centrifugal forces from the sun, moon and rotation of the earth.; Waves. Horizontal movement of water generated by surface winds, also influenced by the fetch and depth of the water body.  Currents. Horizontal movement of water influenced by the rise and fall of the tide, wind and temperature differences in surface waters.;The energy of tides, waves and currents can suspend seabed sediments into the water column and transport them as bedload or suspended load in the direction of flow. When the water flow increases, sediment particles can be lifted into suspension. Conversely, when water flow slows down, sediment particles can no longer be supported and are deposited on the seabed or coastlines. The hydrodynamic effects of artificial structures will impede or enhance water flows, in that increased flow speeds could lead to sediment erosion (scour) and decreased flow speeds could lead to sediment deposition. Waves and currents, and hence sediment transport induced by these forces, can vary by several orders of magnitude and are strongly influenced by prevailing physiographic conditions and consequently climate change, owing to the