Where seals are individually tagged, this should increase the chance of detecting specific responses to shortlived events. Nevertheless, no clear changes in distribution of tagged Harbour or Grey Seals at sea were detected at Nysted by Teilmann et al. (2006), although this was thought to be partly because tagged seals rarely used the windfarm site, with only 0.41 and 0.07 of location fixes for Harbour and Grey Seals respectively, were recorded withinit. In contrast, at Egmond aan Zee OWF in the Netherlands, it was suggested that tagged Harbour Seals avoided the study area in the construction phase by at least 40 km (Lindeboom et al. 2011). Similarly, in their study of 24 tagged Harbour Seals in the Greater Wash, a key Round 2 development area for wind farms in the UK, Hastie et al. (2015) showed the closest that seals came to active pile driving of the Lincs OWF UK varied between 4.7 and 40.5 km. Here, 31 monopiles (5.2 m diameter) were installed between May 2011 and 2012 using intermittent piling periods. A rampup procedure was employed during the first hour of piling, followed by 45 hours of continuous piling during which the median strike interval of the hydraulic hammer was 2 seconds.;In an analysis of the response of tagged seals to construction of both Lincs and Sheringham Shoal OWFs, Russell et al. (2016) compared atsea telemetry data from 19 Harbour Seals before any construction with data from 23 individuals during the construction of Lincs and after piling was complete at Sheringham Shoal in 2012. Two spatial analyses were used to compare the historical data with the 2012 data, and nonpiling with piling data in 2012 alone. The results suggested a closetosignificant increase in the use of Sheringham Shoal in 2012 (up to May) compared to the baseline, although this was linked to a more general increase to the west of Sheringham Shoal rather than the wind farm driving the observed change. A significant increase in the use of the Lincs OWF site subject to piling was also attributed to a general increase in the use of the wider area. Lincs OWF is within 20 km of the main haulouts and pupping grounds for Harbour Seals in the Wash, and individuals continued to move in and out of the estuary during construction. However, during piling, Russell et al. (2016) confirmed significant displacement of seals up to 25 km from the centre of the wind farm, but recovery time, defined as the time to return to an impacted area, was only 2 hours after piling. Thus, the gaps in piling of a few hours or days observed at Lincs (Hastie et al. 2015) seemed to allow unhindered travel and foraging, as reflected by the lack of an impact on local population growth.