Finally, indices cannot always readily identify species that require special assessment under the EU Birds (2009147EC) and Habitats Directives (9243EEC), even though a measure of conservation value may be introduced as a factor, as was the case in Garthe and Hppop (2004). In general, whether particular protected species require special attention in relation to a wind farm is likely to depend on the proximity of Special Protection Areas (SPAs) designated under these Directives and the predictedconnection or connectivity between the SPA and the birds within the windfarm footprint.;Perhaps the most important question about collision mortality is how it affects species at the population scale, be that local, regional, national or international. Such effects are rarely likely to be caused by individual wind farms as the planning process is designed to identify and exclude such projects. For example, in the UK, the proposed Docking Shoal wind farm was refused consent because of its potential effects on internationally important colonies of Sandwich Terns contained within a single SPA (DECC 2012).;Cumulative effects across a region or along a migration flyway are much more likely to occur but harder to quantify. Calculations require a knowledge of the area used by a species at all stages of its life history, a realistic knowledge of the effects from OWFs across this area, and an understanding of the population size, trend and demographic factors of the species in question so that the effects can be modelled. Having undertaken the modelling, agreement is then needed about the threshold at which impacts become unacceptable. As many of the factors described are either unknown or uncertain, theoretical results should be viewed with caution. However, if models converge in their identification of particular species at risk, it would be logical to make them a priority for monitoring.;In the Dutch North Sea, Poot et al. (2011) modelled cumulative effects on seabirds to consider alternative scenarios for future wind farm development in the region. While no significant population level effects were predicted, the authors noted that where populations such as European Herring Gull were already declining, additional windfarm mortality could exacerbate this effect. More recently, theoretical modelling for the southern North Sea (Leopold et al. 2014) identified potentially worrying levels of effect for Lesser Blackbacked Gull, Great Blackbacked Gull, Blacklegged Kittiwake, European Herring Gull and Northern Gannet. Similar species, plus Common Gull, were also identified in a cumulative study of potential effects in Belgian waters, extrapolated to the wider North