During operation, commercial boat traffic will generally be excluded from the area, although maintenance vessels will service the wind farm throughout its life. While larger heavylift vesselsmay be required to perform more complex maintenance tasks, such as swapping gearboxes, crew transfer vessels such as highspeed catamarans typically around 2024 m in length will typically visit each turbine around six times per year during routine minor service activities (Gellatly 2013).;The noise level generated by boats depends on their design and the speeds at which they travel, and further noise is emitted by their sonars. Vessel noise may be audible to many species of marine mammals at considerable distance, with the potential to lead to a range of chronic effects including changes in behaviour, sound masking and displacement from important areas (Richardson et al. 1995 Morton  Symonds 2002 Jansen et al. 2015). Specific changes in behaviour and communication to increased vessel activity and noise have also been shown for Harbour Porpoise and especially Bottlenose Dolphin (Nowacek et al. 2001 Jensen et al. 2009 La Manna et al. 2013).;For pinnipeds, Jones et al. (2017) evaluated the cooccurrence of Grey and Harbour Seals and shipping traffic around the British Isles and modelled acoustic exposure to individual Harbour Seals that was validated with acoustic recorders. Cooccurrence rates were highest within 50 km of the coast, close to seal haulouts. Areas with high risk of exposure included 11 out of 25 Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) (Box 6.1). Predicted cumulative Mweighted SELs for 70 of the Harbour Seals had upper bounds that exceeded levels that may induce TTS. Seals may also be disturbed from haul outs by shipping, which appears to relate to visual as well as noise stimuli (Andersen et al. 2012 Jansen et al. 2015), with Harbour Seals seemingly more sensitive than Grey Seals where they occur sympatrically (Box 6.4).;The increase in vessel traffic during the life of a wind farm also increases the potential for marine mammals to be struck by vessels. Surprisingly perhaps, the review by van Waerebeek et al. (2007) of nearly 250 reported vessel collisions showed that 19 species of potentially small agile cetaceans including Bottlenose Dolphin and Harbour Porpoise had been involved in at least one incident. However, it is the larger cetaceans (Dolman et al. 2006 Panigada et al. 2006), sirenians (Beck et al. 1982) and some pinnipeds (Goldstein et al. 1999) that may be vulnerable.