Depending on the season, birds also may react differently towards wind farms. Migrating Common Eiders have been shown to change flight direction at distances of 12 km at Kalmar Sound, Sweden (Pettersson 2005), or 35 km at Nysted, Denmark (Petersen et al. 2006), while flying birds commuting between roosting and feeding grounds showed a strong behavioural response towards the Tun Knob turbines (Larsen  Guillemette 2007). Yet whenconsidering the general distribution patterns in their familiar winter staging areas, this same species seemed more or less indifferent towards OWFs. Likewise, the study site at Robin Rigg is the only one included in this review chapter where Common Guillemots are more abundant during the breeding season than during winter, perhaps coincident with this being one of the few studies not finding an avoidance response (Vallejo et al. 2017). In winter, Common Guillemots are known to range widely throughout the North Sea and may therefore more easily compensate for any habitat loss by moving elsewhere to forage (Dierschke et al. 2016). In contrast, being centralplace foragers during summer, the individual Common Guillemots studied at the Robin Rigg study site are more constrained in terms of distribution and habitat choice, and may therefore be more tolerant of wind turbines. Ideally, seasonal variation would be assessed by studying the same bird species yearround at the same site. However, most study areas considered here are located in seabird wintering andor migration areas rather than close to major seabird colonies. Therrefore, it has not yet been possible to investigate the full spectrum of seasonal variation in displacement level simply because the birds are not present during a large part of the year at the sites studied.;Lastly, OWFs are still a relatively new phenomenon, and it is often hypothesised that in time seabirds may habituate towards their presence (e.g. Drewitt  Langston 2006 Fox et al. 2006 Petersen  Fox 2007). Few studies have been conducted for long enough to support this hypothesis, yet the occurrence of Common Scoters in and around Horns Rev 2 provides a good example of potential habituation. Although Common Scoters were assumed to be displaced based on the three first postconstruction years, Petersen and Fox (2007) reported these birds to occur in numbers higher than ever before, with a maximum of 4,624 birds within the windfarm footprint in February 2007. In three out of four surveys carried out in 2007, there was no difference between mean encounter rates inside and immediately outside the wind farm, and thus no sign of avoidance during these surveys. The authors mention that this dramatic change in distribution consistent with habituation could well have been a reflection of a change in food abundance in the form of bivalve molluscs within the wind farm.