Despite this rapid evolution of offshore technology, relatively little is known about the vulnerability of birds and bats around offshore structures. Depending on the kind of structure, species, location, seasons, weather and further factors, birds and bats may be unaffected, displaced or potentially even attracted to turbines,and accordingly more or less subjected to collision, or barotrauma in the case of bats (Barclay et al. 2017a), with fatal consequences.;This chapter reviews our understanding of the effects of anthropogenic offshore structures on migratory birds and bats and weighs their potential impact at both the taxonomic and geographic level. Main bird groups considered here include waterfowl, waders and other terrestrial birds, especially passerines. Effects on seabirds, most of which are also migratory in some way, are explicitly detailed by Vanermen  Stienen (Chapter 8) and King (Chapter 9).;We start with a brief overview of the characteristics of the migration of the named bird groups (Figure 7.2), as well as of bats and of the factors affecting offshore migration. The chapter then has two major foci (1) to compile the knowledge on the behaviour of birds and bats at anthropogenic offshore structures and (2) to summarise the results on collisions at anthropogenic offshore structures. Most available evidence comes from studies at offshore or nearshore study sites in northwestern Europe, mainly in the North and Baltic Seas. Since these sites also concentrate the vast majority of global OWFs, this review sets a geographic focus on northwestern Europe, but also prospects the potential effects of planned offshore installations elsewhere. It is mainly based on peer reviewed publications, supplemented by publicly accessible environmental impact studies, and can be seen as an extension of the studies by Hppop et al. (2004 2006 2016) and Hill et al. (2014a) for birds, and Hppop and Hill (2016) and Peterson et al. (2016) for bats. Even though relatively little is known about the effects of anthropogenic offshore structures on migrating birds, even less is known for bats. As a consequence, this review is somewhat bird focused, but infers conclusions on bats from the little available evidence as well as from comparison with existing knowledge on nightmigrating passerines. Compared to the relatively broad knowledge of the effects and impacts of wind turbines onshore (Perrow 2017), many aspects offshore still remain only speculative.