Heat is emitted during the transmission of electricity and if the cable is buried in sediment it is known to raise the temperature by a few degreesto tens of degrees Celsius, depending on the power rating in the cable and the length of time for which it is operating at maximum transmission (Worzyk 2009). There is no available evidence of any effects of thermal emissions on fish but, hypothetically, fish may respond at a very local level. Any impact would probably be indirect, via changes to the benthic infauna as a consequence of the sediment that they inhabit increasing in temperature. There is evidence of a greater abundance ofinvertebrates colonising subsea power cables (Worzyk 2009), which could alter the food availability for fish. Any trophicrelated effect on fish may result in changes in distribution, movement andor abundance, although there is no available evidence to support such changes.;In the dynamic coastal environments where existing wind turbines are installed, questions may be raised about pollution, particularly if the area has a history of industrial activity (Gill 2005). The resuspension of old sediments, some of them with a legacy of industrial chemicals as a result of dredging, placement of construction vessel supports or cable laying, may release chemicals that become bioavailable. Alternatively, the disturbed sediments may simply smother spawning habitat or seabedassociated eggs or larvae. Potential pollutants also include liquids or materials used for the OWF, such as paints (see Rees  Judd, Chapter 2), but there is no evidence of contamination effects on fish. Furthermore, disentangling the likely consequences of past pollution and existing threats is inherently difficult.;The most commonly used windturbine foundations are monopiles others have used tripod foundations with jacket structures and, to a much lesser extent, developments have used gravity foundations or suction caissons (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1 Rees  Judd, Chapter 2 Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). Deployments have been limited to coastal areas and offshore banks with sedimentary seabeds in water less than 50 m deep. In these exposed areas, the substrate is frequently disturbed and benthic invertebrate and algae communities are often dominated by opportunistic species that are adapted to the dynamic environment (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). Nonetheless, offshore banks that are technically suitable for OWFs can provide a refuge opportunity for species that have been excluded by pollution, eutrophication or anthropogenic development farther inshore.