Seal scarers were originally designed to deter seals from fish farms, but are now the main deterrent used before offshore pile driving. They are rather loud and typically transmit sound in thefrequency range 1040 kHz, well within the range of best hearing in Harbour Porpoise, causing an aversion response at noise levels as low as 113 dB. The onset of a response is much lower compared to noise at lower frequencies and an aversion response has been recorded at distances of up to 7 km (Brandt et al. 2013 2014). The effect of the seal scarer thus extends beyond the range needed to prevent hearing damage in Harbour Porpoise (see below), and in projects where noise mitigation during pile driving is applied, the seal scarer may become the dominant cause of porpoise displacement. The use of a specially developed porpoisescarer may reduce such undesirable large effects in future (Kastelein et al. 2017a).;Offshore turbines are placed on a variety of foundations and their potential impacts on marine mammals differ accordingly. Until now, monopiles, tripods or jacket foundations anchored in the seafloor by large steel piles, have been the most widely used (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1) and it is these that generate significant noise (Box 6.3). The size of turbines has also increased considerably from the first commercial largescale wind farm Horns Rev 1 in 2002, employing 2 MW turbines, to the usual standard of 56 MW today. The first 8 MW turbines have now been installed and 10 MW turbines are expected in the near future. Foundation size has increased accordingly from a monopile diameter of 1 m in the first projects to 8 m in recent projects. Gravitybase foundations and suction buckets have been installed in European wind farms and floating foundations are being developed for use in deeper water (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1). These alternatives to monopiles have the important benefit of needing no or much reduced pile driving activity, thereby reducing the noise impact upon marine mammals.