After performing distance correction, the analysis involves modelling the adjusted response variable as a function ofexplanatory covariates. Covariates to be considered may be oceanographic data that were collected simultaneously with the observations or remotely sensed data available online (Oedekoven et al. 2013). Alternatively, latitude and longitude are often included by means of a twodimensional smoother as a proxy for underlying spatiotemporal covariates driving seabird distribution (Vallejo et al. 2017). Indeed, animal abundance at a specific location is likely to be the result of a complex mix of covariates, although many of these covariates are unavailable for inclusion in the model (Mackenzie et al. 2013). In an OWF displacement context, the development phase (before, during and after construction) or location (wind farm, buffer zone and control area) are generally included in the model as factor variables.;Correctly modelling seabird count data can be quite challenging for a number of reasons. First of all, considering the often patchy distribution of seabirds, count data tend to show large variance andor a high proportion of zero values, leading to overdispersion, even after having included all relevant or available explanatory variables. Overdispersion can be accounted for using a negative binomial, or, alternatively, a zeroinflated distribution (Potts  Elith 2006 ver Hoef  Boveng 2007 Zeileis et al. 2008). The latter splits the model in two parts a binomial part modelling the (excess in) zeros, and a count part modelling the positive values according to a Poisson or negative binomial distribution. Secondly, seabird count data may exhibit nonlinear relationships with environmental or spatial covariates, which can be modelled through a generalised additive model or the spatially more flexible complex region spatial smoother (Oedekoven et al. 2013 Mackenzie et al. 2013). Lastly, owing to consecutive sampling along transect lines, collected data are expected to show some level of autocorrelation, implying that counts collected close to each other in either time or space are more similar than more distant counts, thereby violating the assumption of residual independence. This spatiotemporal correlation issue can be accounted for by including userspecified random effects in a generalised additive mixed model (Leopold et al. 2013 Vallejo et al. 2017) or by applying generalised estimating equations (Mackenzie et al. 2013). Better still, accounting for spatial correlation may be achieved through Bayesian modelling techniques, of which the