2014 Mackenzie Maxon 2015). Harbour Porpoises do, however, move away from loud noise sources and are usually deterred from the vicinity of the construction site before the start of piling. Taking uncertainties about swimming speed and direction into account, as well as uncertainties about noise propagation and possibly variable sensation levels (Nachtigall et al. 2016), it is not yet possible to predict accurately how many individuals will receive noise levels inducing either form of hearing damage. An expert group formed to give advice to several Danish OWFs concluded that the risk of hearing damage is considerably lower when taking into account softstart of the piling operation, use of deterrents and porpoises fleeing from the noise source, compared with assessments assuming static exposures. However, the study could not rule out that pile driving will cause PTS to Harbour Porpoises without applying noise mitigation (Energinet 2015). As Harbour Porpoises are present in almost all European OWF sites in considerable densities, it has to be considered in impact assessments that there is a high risk of causing PTS and almost certainly TTS to Harbour Porpoises if projects are realised without appropriate mitigation measures. Studies on the behavioural response by tracking of tagged porpoises exposed to impulsive noise (van Beest et al. 2018) will provide data required to fully assess the noise dose experienced by Harbour Porpoise at offshore construction sites.;The sensitivity of seals in relation to hearing impairment from underwater noise is considered to be much lower than that of cetaceans, and in phocids such as Harbour and Grey Seals the thresholds for the onset of TTS and PTS is estimated at 170 dB SEL and 185 dB SEL (Mweighted), respectively, which is 30 dB higher than that for highfrequency cetaceans. Such noise levels will only be recorded close to a piling operation (Box 6.2 and Box 6.3). However, tracking of Harbour Seals and auditory modelling by Hastie et al. (2015) in relation to the constriction of wind farms in the Greater Wash in the UK predicted SELs resulting in high risks of auditory damage, with all seals predicted potentially to suffer TTS and 50 to have PTS on a number of occasions. Such effects have