The proportion of terrestrial bird species and bats migrating over the sea is much higher than one might assume. Especially during autumn migration, remarkable numbers of birds and bats can be recorded offshore. Consequently, the rapid, worldwide advance of offshore wind power facilities may pose a significant threat to migrating birds and bats in terms of increased energy expenditure and higher collision risk. The extent and the behaviour of birds and bats at offshore wind farms (OWFs) are, however, dependent on a variety of intrinsic, environmental, site and speciesspecific conditions. During daytime and under good visibility as well as during clear nights, many bird species avoid entering OWFs, fly well above rotor height or fly between the turbine rows. Under these conditions, effects on flight energetics are mainly negligible and the risk of collision is generally low. In deteriorating weather situations, flight altitudes of birds at sea normally decrease and artificially lit structures may yield particular attraction. As a consequence, energy expenditure as well as collision risk may increase. Bats are observed to fly low over the sea but may also migrate at higher altitudes. However, some bats change their altitude rapidly when they approach tall vertical obstacles and, onshore, bats have been observed to feed near the turbine blades or to roost at the nacelles. Technical and logistical constraints associated with assessing actual numbers of bird and bat collisions with offshore wind turbines remain challenging. Consequently,there are only very few studies in this context highlighting which species or species groups may be particularly vulnerable, especially under adverse circumstances.;Migration is a widespread phenomenon in all major branches of the animal kingdom. It can take a variety of temporal, spatial and populationrelated (such as differences between sex and age classes) forms and has been described by biologists in many ways. Migration can be obligate, facultative, and partial, and sometimes varies between different populations and even individuals within a species. It allows animals to take advantage of temporally predictable foraging and breeding conditions in different areas that cannot be used simultaneously. A complex combination of internal physiological rhythms and external cues such as photoperiod, weather, food, energy, and other resources and social stimuli influence decisions to migrate at a given time and site (Alerstam 1990 Dingle  Drake 2007 Dingle 2014 Berdahl et al. 2017 Gnanadesikan et al. 2017).;Every day and night worldwide, there are birds and bats on the move. For example, 2.1 billion songbirds and nearpasserine birds migrate between the Palearctic and Africa (Hahn et al. 2009 BirdLife International 2010) to reach their breeding grounds and then go back to their nonbreeding areas.;Globally, there are about nine major bird flyways, or general flight paths of migrating birds, connecting the northern and southern hemispheres (BirdLife International 2010). A flyway encompasses the whole life cycle of a migratory bird (Boere  Stroud 2006). Although originally developed for waterbirds, the flyway concept is generally useful for the study and description of bird migration (BirdLife International 2010). All flyways include large bodies of marine water (Figure 7.1). In the Western Palaearctic, the most prominent flyway is the East Atlantic flyway (red in Figure 7.1), which links a discontinuous band of breeding grounds, stretching in the Arctic from eastern Canada to Siberia, as well as over central, northern, and western Europe, with the nonbreeding