Most estimates of seabird collision are based on theory rather than empirical evidence. This is because the carcass collectiontechnique and its statistical principles used onshore (see Huso et al. 2017) cannot be used offshore, where birds struck by the turbine blade would fall directly into the water. The location and scale of OWFs also make direct observation more difficult and remote sensing methods expensive as a range of techniques must often be employed to ensure 24hour surveillance and identification of birds to species level (Collier et al. 2012 Mollis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5). The offshore environment also poses additional health and safety hazards and access difficulties for operatives who need to make observations and maintain equipment (Skov et al. 2018). As a result, consent conditions to monitor collision risk postconstruction at individual projects are rare and, in the UK, have yielded relatively little collision information (MMO 2014).;The best evidence of bird behaviour within wind farms, including collision avoidance behaviour, has come from well designed and often longterm studies at both onshore and offshore sites, for example in in Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany (e.g. Pettersson 2005 Petersen et al. 2006 Vanermen  Stienen 2009 Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Harwood et al. 2017). The industry and agencyfunded Offshore Renewables Joint Industry Programme (ORJIP) study (Skov et al. 2018), specifically aimed at quantifying seabird collision and avoidance behaviour at OWFs in the UK is a significant recent addition to this body of work. Nonetheless, evidence of collision at OWFs remains sparse and, at the time of writing, the true scale of its impact on seabirds remains unknown.;The chapter begins with a review of the evidence of seabird collision and avoidance at operational OWFs. The topic is discussed primarily as it applies to installations in European waters, as 84 of current built capacity is installed off the European coast, mainly in the north and west. Outside Europe, consented development hotspots are located in the Peoples Republic of China, northern Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the eastern seaboard of North America, with upcoming markets in India and Vietnam (GWEC