In the absence of more empirical data, uncertainty about the true scale of collision and other effects on seabirds will remain, potentially making the planning and consenting of OWFs more extended, complex and risky (Masden et al. 2015). However, collision or avoidance monitoring is rarely required as a consentcondition for individual wind farms, at least in the UK, mainly because of the difficulty of recording rare events and the expense of the technology required (although see Harwood et al. 2017). Rather, collision and avoidance monitoring is regarded as an industrylevel issue. To date, it has arguably been best addressed by welldesigned and managed, longterm projects run with the buyin of government agencies and advisers and funded from a range of sources including industry, such as examples in Denmark (DONG Energy et al. 2006), the Netherlands (Krijgsveld et al. 2011), Belgium (Vanermen et al. 2015) and the ORJIP project in the UK (Skov et al. 2018). Further studies of this type would be beneficial.;Finally, a crucial factor in project reporting is that it is timely and widely disseminated at conferences, as peerreviewed articles or in textbooks such as Kppel (2017), in a manner which makes it accessible to all interested parties. As the cost of offshore wind energy continues to decrease (CRMF 2017 Jameson et al., Chapter 1) and its development around the world continues to grow (GWEC 2018 Jameson et al., Chapter 1), this evidence will be vital in understanding the available capacity in keeping with the sustainable development of this form of renewable energy while minimising wildlife impacts.;I am grateful to Liz Masden of the University of the Highlands and Islands for useful comments on an earlier draft of this chapter. Many thanks to Joris Everaert and Eric Stienen for making their influential work at Zeebrugge available as a case study. Thanks also to Andrew Harwood of ECON Ecological Consultancy Ltd for drawing Figure 9.5 and to Martin Perrow of the same, for photographs and constructive restructuring of the chapter content.;Adams, J., Kelsey, E.C., Felis, J.J.  Peretska, J. (2016) Collision and displacement vulnerability among marine birds of the California Current