Birds sensitive to displacement can be expected to respond towards the presence of an OWF by flying around rather than entering the wind farm andor spending time searching foralternative foraging habitat, implying an increased energetic cost. This may result in decreased food intake when the alternative habitat proves to be of minor quality. Displacement from OWFs can further result in higher bird densities in other foraging areas, leading to increased interspecific and intraspecific competition, thus affecting the displaced birds as well as those already occupying the area (Fox et al. 2006 Petersen et al. 2014). All this may have adverse effects on body condition, potentially leading to an increased prospect of mortality andor decreased productivity.;The sensitivity of a seabird species to displacement is likely to vary with specific stages of their annual life cycle (Busch  Garthe 2016). During the breeding season, seabirds become centralplace foragers, commuting daily between breeding colonies and foraging sites to provide their chicks with food (Figure 8.11). As such, breeding seabirds could potentially interact with an OWF located within their foraging range several times a day, and are therefore suspected to be particularly vulnerable to displacement effects (Masden et al. 2010b). Adult birds suffering from poor body condition due to displacement may safeguard their own survival by abandoning ongoing breeding efforts or not attempting to breed in a particular year or for an even longer period (Furness 2013). Displacement from OWFs within the foraging range of a colony could result in longer foraging flights leading to decreased chick provisioning andor increased foraging effort by both parents leading to increased chick predation with both resulting in reduced chick survival (Searle et al. 2014). During the nonbreeding season, seabirds are no longer attached to the colony and can be expected to suffer less from displacement. On the other hand, mortality of seabirds is often highest in winter, and displacement effects will be additive to other factors causing this annual survival bottleneck. As a result of carryover effects, displacement during winter may lead to a poor body condition at the onset of the breeding season, in turn affecting productivity (Dierschke  Garthe 2006 Furness 2013).