Theoretical considerations suggest that larger offshore turbines will reduce collision risk owing to their lower rotational speeds (Krijgsveld et al. 2009 Johnston et al. 2014) and increased tip clearance above highest astronomical tide where bird flight height distribution is skewed towards sea level (Johnston et al. 2014). However, a theoretical reduction in collision risk may be offset in part by the larger rotorswept area of larger turbines although, for such turbines the greatest proportional increase in swept area is above the majority of seabird flight heights. Any contrast in colour between the transition piece and the tower could reduce collisions, as demonstrated onshore (de Lucas  Perrow 2017 May 2017). Conversely, jacket structures may also increase collision risk as they provide more perching and roosting opportunities than monopile structures (Vanermen et al. 2017), perhaps encouraging more birds to come into close proximity with the turbine rotors. However, any effect of offshore turbine type on bird collision has rarely beeninvestigated and none of the effects mentioned here has been demonstrated in practice.;Windfarm configuration may affect collision risk in a number of ways. To illustrate, radar (Desholm  Kahlert 2005) and visual tracking (Harwood et al. 2017) have shown that birds which enter the wind farm often fly between turbine rows, and Krijgsveld et al. (2011) noted higher levels of flight activity in parts of the wind farm where turbines were more widely spaced, although a later comparative study by the same author could not confirm that turbine density affected avoidance rates (Krijgsveld, K. personal communication, 2014). Standard offshore turbine separation is increasing as turbine capacity increases because greater distances improve wind recovery (Archer et al. 2013) and reduce turbine loading owing to wake interaction, which may cause effects up to 10 rotor diameters (D) in some circumstances (DNV GL 2016). In the UK, offshore turbine separations between 6 and 8 D are common, often giving interturbine spacing of greater than 1 km. This may permit higher rates of mesoavoidance.;Where turbine strings are isolated from the main body of the wind farm, birds have been seen to fly closer to the machines, undertaking more risky behaviour (Krijgsveld et al. 2011). Similar effects incurring higher collision rates have been demonstrated in the Waddensee at a terrestrial wind farm located on a coastal headland where bird flights are concentrated (Brenninkmeijer  Klop 2017). At Thanet, macroavoidance at the corner of the wind farm was lower than elsewhere although this may have been influenced by factors such as the proximity of the transformer module used by roosting gulls or the presence of fishing vessels making estimates conservative (Skov et al. 2018).;The lighting of OWFs is mandatory for safe air and sea navigation. Although Danish studies found no evidence that large migrating birds such as seabirds were attracted to OWFs at night (Petersen et al. 2006), bright lighting at offshore structures such as oil and gas