The refuge principle extends to mobile demersal fauna such as large crabs and fish. At Alpha Ventus, commercially important Edible Crab Cancer pagurus reached densities several orders of magnitude higher on windfarm foundations than on the surrounding sediments (Gutow et al. 2014). While this may provide a refuge from exploitation in most localities, at Sheringham Shoal, local pot fishers are allowed into the wind farm to take crabs and lobsters Homarus gammarus. Although the general restriction of commercial fishing may favour the aggregation of larger predatory fish, rodandline anglers may be attracted to wind farms in the same way as they are attracted to wrecks and rigs, as a result of the prospect of large specimens of valuable sport species such as Atlantic Cod and European Bass Dicentrarchus labrax. Reubens et al. (Chapter 5, Box 5.1) showed the importance of wind farms as habitats for Atlantic Cod, with tagged individuals being highly sedentary and persisting throughout the summer and autumn foraging period, before moving away in winter, potentially tospawn. Unfortunately, at this time some individuals were recovered by recreational fishermen and lost to the study, although others returned to the wind farm the following spring.;The presence of large fish and crustaceans within wind farms is attractive to apex predators such as marine mammals (Nehls et al., Chapter 6). The example from Russell et al. (2014) of tracked Harbour Seals routinely attending Sheringham Shoal and systematically moving from foundation to foundation, consistent with foraging, is particularly compelling. In this part of the North Sea, Harbour Seals are known to take a range of prey, from small demersal fish to crabs (Hall et al. 1998). The latter are known to be abundant from the viable pot fishery that includes the wind farm (see previous paragraph), whereas the former are also likely to be concentrated in the wind farm, as described in other studies (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). Observations made during the boatbased monitoring programme that both Harbour and Grey Seals had increased within the windfarm area after its construction (see Figure 10.1) reinforce the view from the telemetry study by Russell et al. (2014).;For seabirds, the standout species attracted to the resources within wind farms is Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carbo (Lindeboom et al. 2011 Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). As well as supplying suitable fish prey, windfarm infrastructure provides suitable perches for cormorants to stand on and extend their wings to fully dry out their waterlogged feathers (Figure 10.8). The presence of wind farms appears to have allowed Great Cormorants to extend their relatively limited foraging range, from a mean maximum ( 1SD) of 2510 km according to Thaxter et al. (2012), further into the offshore realm. It may be that some non breeding individuals spend much of their time in wind farms, representing a form of colonisation as far as this is possible for a mobile species. Elsewhere, Sandwich Terns regularly associated with the eight navigation buoys installed around the perimeter of the Sheringham Shoal wind farm, which appeared to be responsible for the increased use of the wind farm and the 02 km buffer area in which the buoys were situated, compared to the wider area 24 km from the wind farm (Harwood et al. 2017 Box 10.2).