Richardson et al. (1995) provided a conceptual framework on how anthropogenic underwater noise may affect marine mammalsalong the gradient of decreasing noise levels with increasing distance from the source, with the potential for displacement farther away from the source and hearing damage through a temporary threshold shift (TTS) or even permanent threshold shift (PTS) close to the source (Box 6.2). The onset of physical impairment differs between species groups. Criteria for assessing the onset of TTS and PTS have been collated in a lengthy process for six species groups in the USA (Southall et al. 2007 NMFS 2018). The proposed noise thresholds refer to cumulative exposures and are frequency weighted, in that they assume that noise energy adds up over exposure time, or equally over the number of blows during a piling operation, and that the frequencydependent hearing ability of an animal defines its sensitivity to noise from different sources. It is further concluded that compared to continuous noise, impulsive noise leads to hearing damage at lower levels.;Harbour Porpoises are found to be more sensitive to hearing damage than other highfrequency cetaceans, with an onset of TTS recorded at a broadband level of 164 dB sound exposure level (SEL) by Lucke et al. (2009) for a captive animal exposed to impulsive noise from an airgun. Work from Kastelein et al. (2017b), also on captive Harbour Porpoises exposed to airgun noise, revealed considerably higher thresholds for the onset of TTS (SELcum 188 191 dB), but the application of frequency weighing to the noise data revealed little difference between the studies.;Relating the noise exposure criteria to noise propagation modelling of OWFs reveals that the onset of hearing damage may be reached at distances of a few hundred metres for PTS and up to 5 km for TTS (Nehls et al. 2014 Mackenzie Maxon 2015) from a single strike when large monopiles are driven into the seabed. It needs, however, to be taken into account that a full piling operation consists of a few thousand blows, and thus cumulative exposures to the piling noise need to be considered. Under the assumption that Harbour Porpoises would remain stationary rather than moving away from a construction site, a cumulative noise dose sufficient to cause PTS may be reached at distances of 510 km (Nehls et al.