The morphology that makes gliding birds predisposed to collision onshore, including wingspan, aspect ratio and wing loading (Barrios  Rodriguez 2004 de Lucas et al. 2008), may act to reduce risk offshore as pelagic seabirds with a high aspect ratio and lower wing loading, such as petrels and shearwaters, utilise wind shear and liftassociated with waves (Gibb et al. 2017) and rarely fly at rotor height (Johnston et al. 2014), although the probability of higher flight is greater in stronger winds (Ainley et al. 2015). However, petrels and shearwaters have been recorded as collision victims at onshore wind farms in Tasmania and New Zealand (Hull et al. 2013 Bull et al. 2013). This suggests that where these species traverse land their morphology remains a risk factor owing to their lack of manoeuvrability. Hull et al. (2013) noted that shearwaters were not recorded during daytime utilisation studies so must have been colliding during crepuscular periods or at night when visibility was reduced. Other causal factors could include (1) an increase in flight height into the rotorswept zone due to increased wind strength (Spear  Ainley 1997 Ainley et al. 2015), such as at coastal cliffs and slopes (2) obligatory downwind flight (Ainley et al. 2015), such as when accessing nesting colonies or (3) turbulence effects caused by topography (Stumpf et al. 2011) all of which reduce a gliding birds ability to control its flight.;In theory, species such as gulls, which utilise more flapping flight and have greater manoeuvrability, should be less prone to collision. However, the fact that they are regularly recorded as collision fatalities (Table 9.1) suggests that for species in this group, flight height behaviour is a better collision predictor than morphology.;Avoidance is a key factor in the theoretical prediction of collision risk as small changes in avoidance rate have a big influence on fatality estimates (Cook  Masden, Volume 4, Chapter 6). Empirically calculated avoidance rates such as those derived by Cook et al. (2014, 2018) are generally higher than the default rates used previously in the UK, which were initially as low as 95 before being revised to 98 for most species based on evidence from onshore wind farms. MacArthur Green et al. (2013) made the first wellargued case that the 98 generic rate was too precautionary for seabirds. This was primarily because terrestrial survey methods covered only a relatively small area of the wind farm site and data could only represent microavoidance rates. Any