Under good weather conditions, the clear majority of birds that enter an OWF can be observed to fly well above rotor height or to fly through the corridors between turbines. In contrast, bats usuallyfly close to the water surface but sometimes even rapidly increase their altitude to forage near the turbine blades. Energetic costs when avoiding a single wind farm are possibly negligible, but they may accumulate to some extent when facing multiple wind farms along the migration route. Disoriented birds can become trapped by lighted structures and thus exposed to mortality from exhaustion.;The likelihood of migrating birds and bats entering an OWF is highest at night. On clear nights with favourable winds, most migrating birds will fly well above the rotorswept area, resulting in a very low collision risk. Deteriorating weather conditions, however, often lead to decreased flight altitudes, which in combination with poor visibility and attraction to artificial lighting can result in dramatically increased collision risk with anthropogenic structures. Environmental factors that influence the overall offshore migration intensity also affect the overall risk of collision.;Although collisions may be recorded using a range of increasingly sophisticated equipment (Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5), quantification of the actual number of offshore collision victims is not yet possible. However, four main conclusions may be tentatively drawn from the very few mortality studies to date (1) Newton and Little (2009) concluded from carcasses found along shorelines adjacent to a nearshore wind farm that at least 16.521.5 birds collided per year and turbine, although the great majority of these were seabirds, especially large gulls (2) the type of anthropogenic offshore structure that is, an isolated and illuminated, static platform compared to an array of wind turbines with rotating blades, can affect the total number as well as the species composition of collision victims (Hppop et al. 2016) (3) the number of collision victims probably decreases with increasing distance from the coast and (4) high numbers of collision victims can be expected at sites where migration concentrates, such as marine straits or close to peninsulas, not only of nocturnal migrants but also of (large) raptors (Skov et al. 2016). In Europe, night migrating passerines, especially thrushes, Common Starlings, European Robins Erithacus rubecula and Eurasian Skylarks Alauda arvensis, and vireos, kinglets, and wood warblers in North America,