Offshore, there is, as yet, no prospect of collecting victims at sea,and empirical evidence for collision has relied on direct observation (for example, Petersson 2005) and an increasingly sophisticated range of remote thermal devices, cameras and radars (Desholm et al. 2006 Skov et al. 2018 Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5). Such studies are invariably expensive in terms of equipment, the demanding logistics of working offshore and the intensive resources required, particularly in relation to analysis. A lot of effort is required to detect what we already know from onshore to be rare events. For example, at Nysted OWF in Denmark, Petersen et al. (2006) calculated that 0.0180.02 of waterfowl passing by would collide with turbines. With such a low probability of collision it was predicted that the thermal animal detection system employed at one turbine would fail to detect a waterfowl collision, and this was indeed the case even with 2,445 hours of effort. At Alpha Ventus, using a video camera on a single turbine at night aided by strong infrared illuminators and two thermal imaging cameras, Hill et al. (2014) recorded hundreds of birds flying through or near the blades over a 3 year period, but no direct collisions.;Thus, in essence, detecting collisions becomes a numbers game, although even a typical wind farm may see hundreds of thousands, if not millions of movements of seabirds and other species through the wind farm annually. At Nysted, for example, 235,000 waterfowl passed by the 72turbine site annually. At the similarly sized 88 turbine Sheringham Shoal in the UK, density data gathered during boatbased surveys before the site was built suggested that 348,716 individuals of five species seen to be at risk of collision would pass through the site area on an annual basis (SCIRA Offshore Energy 2006). The number of passages may be much higher for larger sites at other locations such as migration bottlenecks or near breeding colonies, especially large ones. Of course, birds have to fly through a rotorswept area to be at risk from collision and the chances of this are low based on the proportion of the airspace this occupies, even without high avoidance rates.;It is, therefore, not surprising that even where intensive studies have been undertaken, there is a dearth of records of actual collisions (King, Chapter 9). At Yttre Stengrund, Pettersson (2005) observed one collision event whereby the tail of a flock of 310 Common Eider snaked into a rotor. Four birds were knocked to the