The general response of seals to piling events, as exemplified by that observed at Sheringham Shoal (Figure 10.1), is characterised by shortterm aversion, rapid recovery and the subsequent increase in the use of operational sites, which seem to provide enhanced prey resources (see Colonisation and attraction, below). However, theresponse of seals to piling activity is complicated by the fact that they have different sensitivities according to whether they are in and below water, or above water when hauled on sandbanks and rocks. In more detail, in their study of 24 tagged Harbour Seals Phoca vitulina in the Greater Wash, UK, Hastie et al. (2015) showed that the closest individual seals came to active pile driving of the Lincs site varied between 4.7 and 40.5 km. In a separate spatial analysis, Russell et al. (2016) also confirmed significant displacement of seals up to 25 km from the centre of the wind farm during piling. However, the recovery time of return to the impacted area was only 2 hours. Thus, the gaps in piling of a few hours or days at Lincs seemingly allowed unhindered travel and foraging from haulouts at least 20 km away. Nevertheless, the auditory modelling of Hastie et al. (2015) predicted sound exposure levels resulting in a high chance of auditory damage, with all seals predicted to potentially suffer temporary threshold shifts and 50 to gain permanent threshold shifts on a number of occasions (see Nehls et al., Chapter 6 for an explanation of terms), with potential to influence individual fitness and the ability to function normally. There is also evidence of speciesspecific differences between seal species from Scroby Sands in the UK. Here, Grey Seals Halichoerus grypus using a haulout less than 2 km from the wind farm in the UK showed a yearonyear increase both during and after construction, in line with the increase in the wider area, in contrast to the only partial recovery of Harbour Seals after construction was completed (Skeate et al. 2012 Nehls et al., Chapter 6).;In contrast to marine mammals, the response of fish to pile driving has been poorly studied and the impacts generally remain unquantified (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). In general, fish that possess organs to detect sound pressure are able to hear sounds in the range of 10500 Hz (Slabbekoorn et al. 2010) and appear to be affected by construction noise. Some species, such as clupeids, with an anatomical link between their swim bladders and hearing apparatus, are particularly sensitive (Thomsen et al. 2006). Others, such as sandeels, without a swimbladder, appear to be less sensitive. The typical behavioural response may be simply to swim away from the noise source, but if this does not occur rapidly enough, then in extreme cases high exposure levels can lead to