The behaviour of migrating bats at OWFs has been poorly studied. During their investigations in the southern Baltic Sea, Ahln et al. (2009) frequently recorded bats foraging at sea close to the water surface but then rapidly increasing in altitude at tall vertical obstacles such as ships and wind turbines. Likewise, bats have been observed roosting on the nacelles of wind turbines about 6 km off the coast (Ahln et al. 2009). Hppop and Hill (2016) also recorded calls at the FINO 1 platform that indicate extensive exploratory behaviour and foraging, while Lagerveld et al. (2014) detected no feeding buzzes at two wind farms off the Dutch coast. From this sparse evidence, it could be concluded that OWFs do not pose energetic barriers to migrating bats, but instead yield some attraction. Migratory bat species have good visual acuity that may be sufficient for the detection of objects such as stars or illuminated offshore structures over longer distances (Eklf et al. 2013). Species that have been observed catching insects near streetlights, including Lasiurus spp., Eptesicus spp., Nyctalus spp. and Pipistrellus spp. (Mathews et al. 2015), may therefore be attracted by safety and other lights offshore. Cryan and Brown (2007) observed Lasiurus cinereus in the spotlight of a lighthouse on a remote island off the American west coast and Voigt et al. (2017), using a light onoff treatment, observed that the activity of migrating Pipistrellus nathusii and P. pygmaeus on the Baltic coast increased by more than 50 in the lighton compared to the lightoff treatment. Hence, it cannot be excluded that migrating bats also become trapped by illuminated offshore structures in a similar manner to birds (Hppop  Hill 2016).;Turbine collision fatalities are the key factor when assessing the ecological impact of wind farms on birds and bats (for the extremely diverse situation onshore, see de Lucas  Perrow 2017 and Barclay et al. 2017a). Offshore, collisions with artificial structures are extremely difficult to quantify. On the one hand, there are serious logistical and methodological constraints (Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5) and on the other hand, collision risk depends on a broad set of different ecological variables, which