The only other seabirds attracted to wind farms are gulls,especially Great Blackbacked Gull Larus marinus (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). This may be because the reasons of being disturbed and thus displaced (see Disturbance and displacement, above) outweigh the possible reasons for attraction, or simply that relatively few suitable prey resources are present. An obvious exception would be sessile fauna such as Blue Mussels and other bivalves that may be attractive to seaduck such as scoter (see Disturbance and displacement, above, in relation to habituation). Otherwise, many seabirds feed on small shoaling pelagic species such as sandeels (Ammodytes spp.) and clupeids including Atlantic Herring and European Sprat Sprattus sprattus. As yet, there have been relatively few studies on these functionally important species. An exception is the study of Harwood et al. (2017), who showed a significant reduction in foraging rate of Sandwich Terns within a wind farm compared to outside, implying that the availability of pelagic prey was lower inside. An alternative explanation is that as the birds crossing the site avoided theturbines they may have been focused on transit rather than foraging. Moreover, at Alpha Ventus, Krgefsky (2014) did not detect significant differences in the abundance of pelagic species within compared to outside the wind farm both by day and at night, although the Atlantic Mackerel Scomber scombrus captured within the wind farm had significantly reduced stomach fullness compared to those outside, suggesting lower foraging activity. Sessile fauna attached to turbine foundations were of negligible interest to the pelagic fish studied, which at least provides a reason to remain outside the wind farm even if this was not directly demonstrated in the study. The presence of other larger predatory fish and marine mammals such as seals providing a risk of predation is another reason for pelagic species to possibly avoid wind farms (see Foodweb and indirect effects, below).;Among migratory nonseabirds, work by Skov et al. (2016) showed that migrant raptors crossing the Baltic Sea were significantly attracted to a wind farm during adverse wind conditions, akin to the island effect behind the attraction of landbirds to small islands (or boats on a very small scale), whereby birds seek rest and shelter. Hppop et al. (Chapter 7) also suggest that nocturnally migrating passerines in particular may be attracted