Where the flightlines of birds undertaking regular commuting or foraging movements or more generally during dispersal or migration are disrupted, the resultant displacement is typically termed a barrier effect. There have been surprisingly few studies of barrier effects, perhaps simply as tracks of birds are required to demonstrate them, which, in turn, requires the use of telemetry (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8, Box 8.3 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4), visual tracking (Perrow et al. 2011b), video, radar or a combined sensor system (Skov et al. 2018 Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5). For breeding Sandwich Terns at Sheringham Shoal, the proportion of birds on a consistent flight path actually entering the site dropped from a baseline of 95 to 82.5 during initial construction and 65.1 during turbine installation (Harwood et al. 2017), highlighting both the scope for changes in the strength of any barrier effect according to the nature of works undertaken and potential individual variation (as a variable proportion of birds entered or deviated around the site) that may depend on a number of factors, including sex, reproductive status and season (Thaxter et al. 2015) (see Collision with turbines, below). Desholm  Kahlert (2005) documented the response of migrant waterfowl, mainly Common Eider with some geese, at Nysted wind farm. Here, the number of flocks entering the wind farm decreased by a factor of 4.5 from preconstruction to initial operation. The plot of tracks diverting around the wind farm, with only a low percentage flying down the rows of the wind farm, remains one of the most enduring images of windfarm studies to date. Similarly, of the 292 flocks of migrating Pinkfooted Geese Anser brachyrhynchus (Plonczkier  Simms 2012) predicted to enter the Lynn and Inner Dowsing windfarms in the Greater Wash, UK, 167 (57) actually did so, with only 9 (9.68) of the 93 flocks for which flight height information was recorded, flying at rotorswept height while within the array (Figure 10.5). It is important to note that all of the studies described above benefited from studies of the movements of birds before the sites were built.;Figure 10.5 Appearances may be deceptive. Of these migrating flocks of Pinkfooted Geese Anser brachyrhynchus at Lynn and Inner Dowsing in the Greater Wash, UK, radar studies by Plonczkier and Simms (2012) showed that few (5.54 of n292 flocks predicted to enter the arrays) were actually at risk that is, within the sites at the wrong height. (Martin Perrow);Avoidance distance is a welldeveloped concept and is routinely measured onshore (Htker 2017). A key factor determining avoidance distance for birds temporarily resident in an area when breeding, on stopover or wintering is likely to be resource availability (Perrow 2017). Where resources are limited and there is no suitable habitat nearby, birds may be forced to tolerate various forms of human disturbance, including potentially any caused by wind farms regardless or whether of not this affects survival or reproductive success (Gill et al. 2001). In contrast, where resources