Bradbury et al. (2014) built on the methods of Furness et al. (2013) to develop a sensitivitymapping tool for seabirds in English waters (SeaMAST). Sensitivity in this case is governed by areas of higher use by different seabirds, which in turn is likely to be linked to the distribution of breeding colonies in the breeding season, aswell as illuminating key overwintering areas or those concentrating seabirds in the passage period, i.e. their ecological importance. This publicly available, geographic information system (GIS)based package combines species sensitivity information on collision and or displacement with density surface models in a highresolution grid (3 km  3 km). Although a useful tool, it was developed after the award of many UK OWF development zones, some of which were already located in potentially sensitive areas with high levels of consenting risk. However, it has since been used by to identify sea areas with potential for future development based on the biological headroom that remains after taking into account the predicted collision risk for wind farms already in planning, consented or constructed (MacArthur Green, unpublished report, 2017). The approach assumes that predicted levels of collision are likely to be precautionary and remain acceptable, which is a view not held by all stakeholders.;If developed ahead of planning decisions, risk and sensitivity indices are a useful strategic tool and similar indices identifying areas of high windfarm sensitivity andor conservation priority have also been or are being produced for seabirds along the Norwegian coast (Gressetvold 2013), the Pacific coast of North America (e.g. Adams et al. 2016) and the US Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) (e.g. Winiarski et al. 2013). Zipkin et al. (2015) advanced this work by identifying seabird hot and cold spots on the US OCS and making recommendations on the design of survey campaigns with sufficient power to detect changes in seabird abundance at the relevant scale.;While recognising the importance of such decisionmaking tools, particularly the seminal work of Garthe and Hppop (2004), they are clearly less useful where their development lags behind marine spatial planning decisions (Maclean et al. 2014). Certain et al. (2015) also critiqued some basic assumptions of such models and their underlying mathematics, suggesting that refinements would permit better management decisions. Recommendations included separate assessment of pressures such as displacement and collision as per Furness at al. (2013) and Bradbury et al. (2014) and, more importantly, the separation of vulnerability between primary and secondary factors in order to weight them differently. In the