In Germany, a precautionary SEL criterion of 160 dB re 1 Pa2 s outside a radius of 750 m during piling has been included in the licensing process based on noise levels required for the onset of TTS in Harbour Porpoises (Lucke et al. 2009). This SEL is based on asingle impulse criterion and does not account for multiple exposures. The rationale behind this German noise threshold is that Harbour Porpoise will be displaced by deterrents and softstart of the piling operation and reach a safe distance from the construction site before underwater noise immission reaches a level that may harm the animals. In other countries, the use of deterrents is regarded as sufficient to avoid hearing impairment. Furthermore, there is no uniform approach on whether a TTS or a PTS has to be avoided.;Noise mitigation not only reduces the risk of exposing marine mammals to noise that may impair their hearing abilities, but also reduces disturbance and displacement. However, there is no uniformity in the approach to regulate disturbance, as the extent and duration of disturbance need to be assessed in relation to the importance of an area for marine mammals.;Whether operational wind farms are preferentially used by marine mammals depends on a number of factors, with the relative value of the wind farm as a foraging area compared to the surrounding habitat perhaps being a key consideration. Moreover, as indicated for Harbour Porpoise at Egmond aan Zee (Scheidat et al. 2011), reef and refuge effects may be indistinguishable from each other. The benefits of reef and refuge effects will also only apply to species able to cope with the operational noise and boat traffic in the wind farm. Furthermore, even where effects of reef and refuges from fisheries operate, it remains uncertain whether this simply represents a redistribution of available prey or an increase in prey availability over the larger area.;To date, wind farms have been focused on shallow coastal waters containing relatively few, and generally small species of odontocetes and pinnipeds. As development expands into different regions and moves farther offshore into deeper waters occupied by different species, especially the great whales, the pressure will be on to undertake more elegant and robust studies to understand better the potential impacts of wind farms.