In OWFrelated seabird displacement studies, three methods are generally applied for counting birds boatbased surveys with visual recording, and aerial surveys with either visual recording or digital imagery (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3 in Volume 4 of this series). Each of these methods has its advantages and limitations. Boatbased surveys stand out when it comes to the detailed recording of birds to species level and detailed information on their behaviour (including that related to foraging and feeding) and flight direction. Boatbased surveys further allow simultaneous and realtime measurements of environmental variables such as water salinity and seasurface temperature. The major drawbacks of boatbased surveys are the inevitable disturbance of divers (Gavia spp.) and seaducks such as scoters (Melanitta spp.), and the attraction of birds towards the vessel, as is the case for some gulls, and which may also apply to Northern Fulmar Fulmaris glacialis and Northern Gannet Morus bassanus in some circumstances. Most other bird species are less sensitive to disturbance and attraction, and at leastallow a vessel to come close enough to allow visual detection with binoculars or are seemingly indifferent to the presence of vessels (Garthe  Hppop 2004). Depending on flight height, aerial surveys suffer less from bias due to disturbance, and do not attract birds. Other advantages include the possibility to cover vast areas in a short period, providing a snapshot of widescale seabird distribution, as well as to cover shallow sea areas not accessible by vessels. On the downside, aerial surveys result in less species specific data. Because of difficulties in identifying birds viewed from above, and considering the high speed of the survey platform in the case of visual recording, species often need to be lumped into species groups. Yet, similarlooking species within groups, such as auks or gulls, do not necessarily occupy the same ecological niche and can certainly not be assumed to show the same response to OWFs. In practice, visual surveys have been almost entirely replaced by digital surveys (Webb  Nehls, Chapter 3 in Volume 4) as digital imagery allows the plane to fly higher, further reducing disturbance, and stored data allow for (re)checking and independent quality assurance yet postprocessing including species identification is very time consuming. In general, aerial survey results are highly sensitive to weather conditions (Camphuysen et al. 2004) and the snapshot character of aerial surveys may mean that potential diurnal (Schwemmer  Garthe 2005) and tidal (e.g. Embling et al. 2012) patterns in the presence of birds may not be adequately covered. The cost of multiple flights per day or over a few days may be prohibitive, however.;When aiming to monitor overall seabird responses to OWFs, one method is not undeniably better than the other. Nevertheless, when wanting to investigate the response of a specific bird species (group), it is easier to define the best way to go. For scoters and divers, aerial surveys undoubtedly supply better and less biased data but when targeting Common Guillemot Uria aalge, for example, one will be better off with boatbased surveys. In the end, the chosen method is likely to be a compromise between the study goals and the budget and logistics available to reach those goals. Camphuysen et al. (2004) detail census techniques for both aerial and boatbased survey methods, and provide an extensive tabular overview of the suitability of either method depending on the