Climate Change (DECC) determined that if all three wind farms were built, there would be unacceptable and significant cumulative impacts on the local, internationally important Sandwich Tern population (DECC 2012a). Ultimately, the regulator refused Docking Shoal consent. Yet, once the other projects had eventually been constructed, one built out at 402 MW rather than the 560 MW that had been consented to, arguably providing capacity or headroom for at least a part of Docking Shoal to have been constructed (Freeman  Hawkins 2013). More importantly, monitoring of another site nearby, Sheringham Shoal, has shown that Sandwich Terns avoided built turbines even before they became operational, to a greater extent than had been predicted (Harwood et al. 2017). The availability of rigorous monitoring data is of clear benefit in reducing environmental uncertainty and consenting risk.;The acquisition of monitoring and environmental baseline data to inform impact assessments is more challenging offshore than onshore, in part because of the need for specialist equipment and vessels to access remote and hostile areas of the sea. Reduced visibility and challenging weather conditions also make detecting and quantifying marine life difficult. Moreover, there are relatively few OWFs compared to their onshore counterparts, and so a smaller body of data exists.;Methodologies employed for monitoring may vary, making extrapolation and applicability to future projects uncertain. As a result, assessments of impact significance and the parameters on which they are based may be highly precautionary. A good example of this is the accepted methodology for assessment of collision risk for birds. The estimated number of collisions that may occur at a wind farm is calculated using a collision risk model. The model takes into account a number of assumptions associated with species flying behaviour, turbine size, number of turbines, and various other factors such as swept area and rotor speed. These models are based on theoretical assumptions, as monitoring actual seabird collision events is extremely difficult. Direct observation requires the use of specialist equipment that can not only detect a collision, but also provide sufficient information to identify the species and be able to withstand exposure to the offshore marine environment.