Marine mammals naturally occur in probably every offshore wind farm (OWF) worldwide. During construction, operation and decommissioning they are exposed to various pressures, of which the high levels of noise produced during pile driving of foundations into the seabed are the strongest, although other sources of noise including vessels may also have some effect. Noise may result in auditory effects with disturbance and resultant displacement, sound masking and even hearing loss, as well as nonauditory effects such as stress and physical injury. Other possible effects include the risk of collision with service vessels and changes to available habitats, including changes in hydrodynamics. Conversely, reef and refuge effects may actively benefit some species, owing to increases in prey associated with windfarm underwater structures or reduction in fishing pressure and disturbance. Studies have tended to focus on a limited range of more abundant species in European shelf seas, including Harbour Porpoise and Grey and Harbour Seals. However, given increases in the geographic extent of developments and potential for developments in deeper water, a greater range of species may become the focus of future studies. A number of studies have demonstrated disturbance and partial displacement of Harbour Porpoises up to distances of about 20 km during piledriving activities, which are reversible within 13 days. Operational wind farms are frequently used by Harbour Porpoise and both seal species and while some attraction has been shown for seals, overallimpacts on marine mammals during operation seem to be low. Understanding of the impacts from OWFs and their interaction with other pressures and cumulative impacts, at both the individual and population levels, needs to be improved using appropriate studies and tools such as population modelling to link impacts to changes in vital rates.;The polyphyletic marine mammal group is comprised of 130 species (Society for Marine Mammalogy, Committee on Taxonomy 2016). All marine mammals are today exposed in some way to anthropogenic pressures, leading to the International Union for Conservation of Nature and Nature Resources (IUCN 2017) classifying more than 25 of species as vulnerable (11), endangered (13) or critically endangered (2), primarily as a result of a wide range of impacts that have also changed over time (Magera et al. 2013). While in former times dedicated hunting was the main cause for declining marine mammal populations, more recently, fisheries bycatch and a wide range of indirect human pressures in the marine environment, such as water pollution, ocean acidification, climate change and overfishing of prey, have caused adverse impacts (Read 2008 Davidson et al. 2012).;Following the evolution of motorpowered shipping in the late eighteenth century, levels of anthropogenic noise in the marine environment increased steadily and now include a variety of sources for example, sonar, seismic exploration using airguns and offshore installations such as oil and gas rigs. Noise apparently continues to increase in many places, as documented by a rise of around 10 dB in parts of the Pacific since the 1960s (Andrew et al. 2002). Cetaceans are often assumed to be susceptible to noise pollution as a result of their use of sound for communication, navigation, orientation, predator avoidance and prey detection (Wartzok  Ketten 1999), all exploiting the fact that sound can travel rapidly over long distances in water where other senses such as vision may be limited by murky or dark environments. Some marine mammals, such as the odontocete cetaceans, use high