OWFrelated seabird displacement could be defined as any change in temporal or spatial area use attributable to the presence of the wind farm (Htker 2017). These changes can be due to a direct (visual) response or a more indirect stimulus because of achange in environmental conditions. A natural distrust of large, conspicuous rotating structures standing well over 100 m high in their usually wide open marine habitat may result in seabirds avoiding flying through wind farms when on migration or during commuting flights as a barrier effect, as well as in local birds avoiding swimming or flying into the windfarm footprint area and its immediate surroundings. Avoidance thereby affects the favoured feeding distribution, resulting in habitat loss for seabirds. Increased vessel movements for maintenance activities may also result in some seabirds avoiding OWFs (Petersen et al. 2006 Fox et al. 2006 Drewitt  Langston 2006). Importantly, displacement levels are likely to be subject to spatiotemporal variation, as avoidance responses may change over time when birds habituate to the presence of turbines, and effects may differ between sites, resulting from differences in habitat quality of the wider area (Drewitt  Langston 2006).;Targeted monitoring programmes in and around European OWFs have indeed shown that local seabird distribution may change dramatically after windfarm construction, and that the observed effects are highly species and site specific. Early results showed that while some species displayed avoidance, others seemed to be attracted towards OWFs (Petersen et al. 2006). As a result of effective habitat loss and increased competition in alternative foraging areas, Fox et al. (2006) suggested that seabirds avoiding OWFs could suffer from decreased food intake and increased energy expenditure, with potential consequences for their future survival or productivity. An increased presence of birds inside OWFs, in contrast, is often attributed to the newly created roosting possibilities or, alternatively, to enhanced food availability as a result of the artificial reef effect (Drewitt  Langston 2006 Leonhard  Pedersen 2006 see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). On the downside, birds attracted to wind farms face increased collision risk.