2015 Marine Scotland 2014 Langston  Teuten 2018) are seen to be a key area of research on the indirect effects of wind farms upon seabirds through their fish prey, which will almost invariably change over time through shortterm displacement of fish during noisy construction, into an ecologically different trophic system with new fish actors as the operational reef effect develops. The vulnerability of seabirds to anthropogenic change affecting their prey stocks is already well known (Frederiksen et al. 2004 Daunt et al. 2008 Cury et al. 2012).;Given the difficulties of quantifying windfarm losses, it would seem prudent to also closely monitor those seabird colonies with the potential to be affected as an early warning of any impacts, bearing in mind that the loss of relatively few adults to the breeding population, either through collision or through failure to breed as a result of displacement from preferred areas, may be important for these kselected species. This is notwithstanding that it will always be difficult to disentangle any impact from wind farms from the plethora of other factors limiting seabird populations (e.g. Frederiksen et al. 2007 Cury et al. 2012), perhaps especially on what are generally longdistance migratory species that inhabit different geographical areas subject to their own pressures at different times of year (e.g. Ramos et al. 2012). The same case for monitoring could be made for seals and cetaceans, although seals may be at less risk from wind farms in general, whereas monitoring of cetaceans is especially challenging as their entire lives are spent at sea.;Significant plans are now also in place in numerous other countries in the world for rapid expansion of wind farms, in their surrounding seas with different trophic conditions and a different set of dependent wildlife (Jameson et al., Chapter 1). The lessons learned from northwestern Europe must be incorporated into planning, using the monitoring and modelling tools and potential mitigation strategies outlined in Volume 4 of this series. However, until further research fills the knowledge gaps, the uncertainty of impacts should be embraced by avoiding conflict through careful selection of sites and even turbine locations bearing in mind that some turbines typically have greater impact than others (Perrow 2017). This will be vital to achieve Kiesecker et al.s (2011) vision