In addition to breeding terns, the main bank supports impressive numbers of terns in the autumn migration period, with 3,694 counted from photographs taken on 31 July 2013 (1,936 Common Terns, 1,616 Sandwich Terns, 141 Little Terns and one Roseate Tern) (Perrow  Eglington 2014). The bank is also a stopover for several species of migrant wading birds and forms part of the habitat for a range of locally breeding and nonbreeding gulls and Great Cormorant Phalacrocorax carboas well as being a haulout for Grey Seal Halichoerus grypus and Harbour Seal Phoca vitulina (Skeate et al. 2012).;Once sites are built, there are a number of potential ecological pathways that may ultimately affect seabirds as well as other apex predators, which stem from changes in physical processes and the physical environment. From the available evidence, Rees  Judd (Chapter 2) concluded that any physical effects may occur predominantly in the near field for tides and sediment transport, although modelling studies suggest that impacts can extend beyond this for waves. The effects of changes in physical processes are likely to be site specific, and the situation observed at Scroby Sands in a highly dynamic environment provides the unconfirmed prospect of possible sediment transport effects over a greater distance, ultimately with benefits for wildlife (Box 10.3). Otherwise, scour around windturbine structures, particularly monopiles in sandy sediments, is typically controlled by the use of rock foundations, which contribute to the hard substrate provided by the turbines themselves, influencing habitat diversity and changing the nature of faunal assemblages (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). Gill  Wilhelmsson (Chapter 5, Figure 5.5,) speculate that a shift in the nature of ecological interactions will occur, with increased benthic relative to pelagic productivity and perhaps benthopelagic coupling expressed as a relative increase in the biomass of demersal relative to pelagic fish. The extent to which any effect extends from the wind farm is unknown, although the migration of fish to other habitats at some times of year (Reubens et al., Chapter 5, Box 5.1) could be argued to represent a considerable extension of the wind farm effect. In turn, an increased presence of piscivorous fish (Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) may directly compete with seabirds for shared prey (Jakobsen 2014) as well as changing the dynamics of that shared prey, including its redistribution as a result of predation risk (Heithaus et al. 2008).