Large gulls (Larus spp.) have been shown to be attracted to some Belgian wind farms (Vanermen et al. 2015). However, the pattern is inconsistent as GPS tracking of large gulls at Thorntonbank showed that although birds were present within the wind farm, roosting on the turbine jackets and occasionally feeding on mussels growing in the intertidal sections, densities were lower inside than outside the wind farm and birds were more common on the outer rows than farther in and spent less time in flight. This suggests either macroavoidance or a barrier effect (Vanermen et al. 2017). Similar results were recorded at Thanet, where gulls were seen to roost on the transformer module, but densities were lower within the wind farm than outside and Herring Gull rarely penetrated beyond the two outermost turbine rows (Skov et al. 2018).;Collision risk may be associated with phenological period as seabird abundance is often highly seasonal (Krijgsveld et al. 2011). If so, the scale and timing of effects will depend on whether the wind farm is located close to a breeding colony, foraging area, migration route or wintering location.;For breeding GPStagged Lesser Blackbacked Gulls, pre construction data showed peak use of offshore foraging areas, including potential windfarm locations, during the prebreeding season. Use decreased while birds were incubating and increased again during early chick rearing. However, use varied between years, sexes and individuals (Thaxter et al. 2015 Thaxter  Perrow, Volume 4, Chapter 4). Similar data for Northern Gannet showed differences in foraging patterns between colonies and sexual segregation in the use of foraging habitat during the breeding season, although birds tracked in German waters tended to avoid the wind farms (Corman 2015). In Scotland, before the construction of any wind farms, males foraged in more mixed coastal waters with females foraging farther offshore (Cleasby et al. 2015b). In theory, this has the potential to lead to a sex bias in collisions, depending on windfarm location, for different reasons than those described previously for Common Tern (Stienen et al. 2008).;For breeding seabirds, which are centralplace foragers, their reproductive status may drive them to take greater risks during the chickrearing period, leading them to fly through, rather than avoid wind farms, potentially increasing collisions. At Zeebrugge, high collision rates of terns during the breeding season were attributed to specific turbines located between a large colony and the birds feeding grounds at sea (Everaert  Stienen 2007 Everaert 2014).