 EIA. Impact assessment begins with definition of the project parameters for which a consent is sought, establishment of baseline conditions and characterisation of environmental receptors with the potential to be affected by the development. The impact assessment proper uses standard methods toestimate the significance of impacts on each environmental receptor based on what is known about that particular receptors sensitivity, as well as the likely magnitude and duration of impacts. The results of the EIA are presented in the form of an Environmental Statement (ES). Within the ES, reasonable alternatives must be considered, and all conceivable direct and indirect effects and impacts considered, across all topic areas defined during scoping and during both construction and operation of the development. Some EIAs will also include consideration of decommissioning however, the timescales involved often necessitate a further assessment of impacts associated with project termination to be undertaken closer to the time of decommissioning to account for developments in technology and best practice. Where impacts are considered unacceptable, appropriate mitigation measures must be proposed. All technical data must be presented in the form of appendices. An ES for an OWF is invariably an extremely large document or series of documents (which for some projects have reached over 12,500 pages) as a result of the breadth and depth of the information provided on a wide range of physical, chemical and biological receptors (Table 1.1).; Consultation. Regulatory agencies and various advisory bodies within a specific country, and neighbouring countries if applicable, will be provided with the opportunity to analyse the data presented and provide a formal response, which must be considered by the developer during the consenting process. At the same time, the ES must be made publicly available so that anyone with an interest in the project can access the information and provide comment if they so wish. The number and length of responses from all stakeholders can be significant, and all must be considered.; Determination. After consultation, the regulator will consider all evidence and comments from stakeholders and will work with senior officials to determine whether the project proposed can be granted a licence. Once a decision has been made by the regulator on whether to grant a consent or consents to develop a particular site, this decision and the justification for it must be made public. There will be a certain