Withinwindfarm avoidance (mesoavoidance) was demonstrated in early radar studies which showed that seabirds entering the wind farm were likely to reorientate their flight direction to fly between turbine rows, often remaining equidistant from them (Desholm  Kahlert 2005 Pettersson 2005 Petersen etal. 2006) and to avoid operational turbines at a greater distance than stationary ones (Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Hill et al. 2014). This behaviour has been quantified at Thanet with radar and video data showing that 99.4 of individuals flew between rows rather than avoiding the turbine by flying below or, even more rarely, above the rotor. Empirical mesoavoidance rates were calculated ranging between 84.2 for Great Blackbacked Gull and 92.1 for Northern Gannet with European Herring Gull, Lesser Blackbacked Gull, and Blacklegged Kittiwake at intermediate values (Skov et al. 2018).;Until recently, microavoidance behaviour has rarely been observed offshore but at Egmond aan Zee radar backed up by visual observation showed that very few birds approached within 50 m of the rotating turbine and, of those, only 7 entered the rotorswept area (Krijgsveld et al. 2011). Similarly, remote threedimensional cameratracking on a single turbine at Sheringham Shoal, UK, showed that no birds approached within 60 m of the turbine blades (M. Mellor  K. Hawkins, unpublished report 2013). The use of video at Thanet, also suggested that only a small proportion of birds entered the zone within 10 m of the rotor blade. For all those seabirds that did, the empirical microavoidance rate was 95, with birds often making flight adjustments to fly parallel to the rotor. The overall empirical avoidance rate was most sensitive to this element of avoidance behaviour. There was a high risk attached to those flights which crossed perpendicular to the rotor blade as of the 15 occasions on which this was recorded, six resulted in collision (Skov et al. 2018).;Overall avoidance rates can only be backcalculated from collision risk models where flight movement, including flight height, and fatality data are collected simultaneously and the differing contributions of macro, meso and microavoidance are well understood (Cook et al. 2014). Avoidance rates calculated previously for seabirds and reviewed by MacArthur Green et al. (2013) have not always met these requirement. For example, data on the microavoidance rates for tern and gull species at Zeebrugge (Everaert  Stienen 2006 Everaert 2014) were generated using passage rates collected over a shorter period than fatalities, and the authors themselves noted that the results should be treated with caution. However, if treated as microavoidance rates they are in