Elsewhere in European waters, and specifically at demonstration sites such as Alpha Ventus (BSH  BMU 2014) in Germany and Egmond aan Zee (Lindeboom et al. 2011) in the Netherlands, where a range of trophic levels were monitored, it is clear that indirect and foodweb effects are highly likely to occur as a result of wind farm installation. For example, Lindeboom et al. (2011) reported that within 2 years, the site was operating as a new type of habitat with a higher biodiversity of benthic organisms, with a possible increased use of the area by benthic invertebrates, fish, marine mammals and some bird species, and a decrease in use by severalother bird species.;The case of Little Tern breeding at the Great Yarmouth North Denes SPA (Perrow et al. 2011a), then the largest breeding colony in the UK, containing more than 11 of the population, shows that indirect effects may be initiated during construction. Here, significant declines in the prey capture rate of breeding birds (Figure 10.10) coincided perfectly with declines in the abundance of young clupeids, mainly youngoftheyear Atlantic Herring (Figure 10.11), linked to pile driving during the construction of the Scroby Sands wind farm, encompassing the entire spawning period of the local herring population. Furthermore, the decline in foraging success was linked to the unprecedented abandonment of eggs in both 2004 and 2005, such that not a single chick hatched in 2004, which could not be linked to other factors such as predators, human disturbance or high tides. Sampling 9 years after the event indicated only slight recovery of the herring stock, and it is of note that the numbers of Little Terns breeding in the immediate area are much reduced, although birds are now present on Scroby Sands themselves (Box 10.3). As Little Tern has the smallest foraging range of any seabird in the UK (Thaxter et al. 2012), meaning that it is vulnerable to local effects, it remains possible that the situation at North Denes was exceptional. Nevertheless, given that construction of large wind farms may take several years to complete and some key species of fish are highly sensitive to noise (see Disturbance and displacement, above), it should not be assumed that construction impacts on fish would invariably be of short duration and have no effects on seabirds.