In a further study, Brandt et al. (2018) investigated the response of Harbour Porpoises to pile driving during the construction of seven OWFs in the German Bight of the North Sea. All projects applied noisemitigation measures (see Concluding remarks below for details in Germany) but as these were still under development noise reduction was moderate. Nonparametric analyses revealed a clear gradient in the decline in porpoise detections at different noiselevel classes. Compared to a baseline period of 2548 hours before piling, porpoise detections declined by over 90 at noise levels above 170 dB, but only by about 25 at noise levels between 145 and 150 dB. Below 145 dB, this decline was smaller than 20 and thus was not clearly related to noise emitted by the piling process. The duration of the effect after piling was about 2031 hours in the close vicinity of the construction site (up to 2 km) and decreased with increasing distance. Projectspecific estimates ranged between 16 and 46hours.;The generation of lower noise levels below a threshold may explain the weaker effect on Harbour Porpoise evident in other studies. For example, PAM during construction of two wind turbines off northeast Scotland by Thompson et al. (2010) and an investigation during impact and vibration piling at the Nigg Energy Park within the Moray Firth Special Area of Conservation in 2014 (Graham et al. 2017) did not detect a clear response. In the latter study, the results may have been confounded by low statistical power or the lack of ecological drivers, including availability of key habitat.;The response of seals to piling activity is complex in the sense that seals occur in and below the water surface as well as above it, with different sensitivities. In support of the theoretical considerations of Thomsen et al. (2006), early studies in Denmark showed a significant reduction of 3160 in the numbers of seals using a haulout some 10 km away during piling of Horns Rev (Edrn et al. 2004). At Scroby Sands in the UK, where the haulout is less than 2 km from the OWF, aerial surveys showed a significant decline in the numbers of Harbour Seals without full recovery 2 years after piling (Box 6.4), suggesting displacement of animals to other areas outside the typical range from the haulout. In contrast, Grey Seals showed a continued yearonyear increase in numbers after construction. The presence of this larger species competing for space and prey resources may have contributed to the failure of the smaller Harbour Seal to recover. Monitoring was not, however, linked to specific piledriving events and therefore shortterm disturbance and displacement could not be discounted in either species. Thus, where the two were linked, as at Horns Rev, boatbased surveys recorded a decline in the use of the windfarm area during the construction phase, with no Harbour Seals present inside it on days with pile driving (Teilmann et al. 2006).