In more detail, Johnston et al. (2014) pooled flight height data from 32 preconstruction surveys of UK OWFs to estimate continuous flight height distributions for 25 seabird species. Data were collected mainly by boatbased surveys with the addition of four studies from either onshore observers or fixed offshore platforms. Species that forage on the wing and subsequently dip to the sea surface to seize prey such as gulls and terns, or dive from a height to take prey from below the surface, such as Northern Gannet, have a tendency to fly higher than species that dive from the sea surface, such as auks and shearwaters (Figure 9.5 and Figure 9.6). This basic pattern may then be modified by how the bird flies (see Morphology below) and the reason for flight, such as whether the bird is foraging, commuting or migrating and may explain whygannet flights appear to be bimodal (Skov et al. 2017, Cleasby et al. 2015a). The analysis showed that a variety of gull species and Northern Gannet were among the species that flew within the rotor swept area (20 m), although flights were skewed towards its lower reaches (Figure 9.5). It was estimated that overall, these birds flew at risk height between 10 and 35 of the time (Jongbloed 2016).;Figure 9.5 Flight heights of different seabird species relative to the rotor swept zone of three turbine models (3.6 MW, 6 MW and 7 MW) as installed (3.6 MW at Sheringham Shoal and 6 MW at Dudgeon) or planned (7 MW at East Anglia ONE) at three UK offshore wind farms. Heights at which 25, 50, 75 and 99 of flights are expected according to the modelled distributions of Johnston et al. (2014) are shown. Species are shown in order of declining flight heights and are denoted by their respective British Trust for Ornithology codes. GB Great Blackbacked Gull Larus marinus HG European Herring Gull Larus argentatus LB Lesser Blackbacked Gull Larus fuscus KI Blacklegged Kittiwake Rissa tridactlya GX Northern Gannet Morus bassanus TE Sandwich Tern Thalasseus sandvicensis F Northern Fulmar Fulmarus glacialis GU Common Guillemot Uria aalge MX Manx Shearwater Puffinus puffinus. The species selected represent key seabird families in relation to collision risk, including Laridae (GB, HG, LB, KI and TE), Sulidae (GX), Alcidae (GU) and Procellariidae (F and MX). (Andrew Harwood)