However, in the period 20092014, the colony was significantly disturbed by the presence of a Red Fox Vulpes vulpes and Brown Rats Rattus norvegicus, resulting in a large decrease in the number of breeding pairs and decreased reproductive output. This made it difficult to make a reliable comparison with previous years and to separate the effect of the repowering from disturbance and predation. Nonetheless, compared with the period before 2009, a clear reduction in the number of collision fatalities, both absolute and proportional to the number of breeding pairs, was noted (Table 9.2). However,the exact rate of change is still to be determined, mainly because of other confounding impact factors such as the presence of the Red Fox. Further study during the coming years is recommended to clarify the actual impact.;At OWFs, most gull species have been shown to maintain consistent flight heights before and after construction (e.g. Mendel et al. 2014), sometimes increasing height within the wind farm and closer to the turbines (Krijgsveld et al. 2011 Skov et al. 2012, 2018). This height increase may contribute to the number of gull fatalities recorded at coastal wind farms and could potentially lead to higher numbers of collisions than preconstruction estimates. By contrast, Northern Gannet, Blackheaded Gull and Blacklegged Kittiwake flew at reduced heights inside the operational wind farm at Egmond aan Zee compared to outside (Krijgsveld et al. 2011), suggesting that behavioural adaptation may occur (Petersen et al. 2006 May 2015) and that actual collisions would be lower than predicted. As evidence emerges, these general patterns may be shown to vary, for example at Thanet both Northern Gannet and Blacklegged Kittiwake flew slightly higher within the wind farm than outside (Skov et al. 2018). However, in general, the percentage of birds at rotor height is expected to be a relatively good predictor of collision risk (Band 2012 Cook et al. 2012 Johnston et al. 2014) and this percentage is used in collision risk modelling derived either from sitebased surveys or from a generic database.;In more detail, Johnston et al. (2014) pooled flight height data from 32 preconstruction surveys of UK OWFs to estimate continuous flight height distributions for 25 seabird species. Data were collected mainly by boatbased surveys with the addition of four studies from either onshore observers or fixed offshore platforms. Species that forage on the wing and subsequently dip to the sea surface to seize prey such as gulls and terns, or dive from a height to take prey from below the surface, such as Northern Gannet, have a tendency to fly higher than species that dive from the sea surface, such as auks and shearwaters (Figure 9.5 and Figure 9.6). This basic pattern may then be modified by how the bird flies (see Morphology below) and the reason for flight, such as whether the bird is foraging, commuting or migrating and may explain why