After the closure of COWRIE, the Strategic Ornithological Support Services (SOSS) projects were established, aimed at providing ornithological advice to inform decision making for offshore wind. Among other projects, SOSS sought to understand how different species are displaced following offshore windconstruction in an area, and provided guidance on methods to assess bird collision risk and monitor collision events. In 2012, industry and government stakeholders created the ORJIP, which jointly funded research into the impacts of offshore wind on the marine environment. The three most notable projects undertaken through ORJIP are; The Bird Collision Avoidance study monitored how birds behaved within and around the operational Thanet Offshore Wind Farm, with the aim of better understanding their avoidance behaviour and risk of collision (Skov et al. 2018).; The Acoustic Deterrent Devices study aimed to determine the efficacy of acoustic deterrent devices in deterring seals, Harbour Porpoise Phocoena phocoena and Common Minke Whale Balaenoptera acutorostrata from offshore wind construction zones (Sparling et al. 2015 McGarry et al. 2017).  The Piling and Installation Restriction study aimed to understand the impacts of piling during the Atlantic Herring Clupea harengus spawning season (Boyle  New 2018).;These significant research projects have considerably improved our understanding of the impacts of offshore wind on the marine environment. However, further research is still required, particularly in relation to cumulative impacts, which could eventually become a barrier to further development in UK waters. But, as it stands, only two sites have been rejected as a result of an unacceptable predicted impacts upon particular bird species Shell Flats in Liverpool Bay and Docking Shoal in the Greater Wash (DECC 2012b). In Scotland, the initially successful judicial review brought by the RSPB against four largescale offshore wind projects in Scottish waters was overturned by the Inner House of the Court of Session following a lengthy legal battle, and the previously quashed consents reinstated. A further appeal by RSPB to the UK Supreme Court was rejected in November 2017 (https www.supremecourt.uknewspermissiontoappealdecisions07 november2017.html).