The consenting process is much faster in China than in many other nations, taking around 2 years to obtain the various permits required from government agencies. Under the Chinese EIA Law (1999), developers must conduct an EIA for construction projects that have a potential of having a significant environmental impact and submit an Environmental Impact Report to the State Environmental Protection Administration. In 2013, the National Energy Administration (NEA) devolved powers to provincial governments to try to accelerate consenting, although this hadlimited effect in the absence of clear implementation guidance.;Historically, without clearly defined roles within government agencies, conflicts between the NEA and other government agencies have arisen. In an attempt to address these conflicts, the NEA and State Oceanic Administration released a set of regulations and frameworks for offshore wind that allocate responsibilities between agencies as well as introducing rules, such as a minimum distance of 10 km from shore for all new projects, to avoid conflict with other marine users and thereby facilitate the consenting process.;In Japan, national policy has shifted in favour of renewable energy following the Fukushima nuclear incident (International Atomic Energy Agency 2015) and in response to public opposition to onshore wind on the basis of visual and noise disturbance (Carbon Trust 2014b). Japan has significant scope for offshore wind development, with the Japanese Wind Power Association ambitiously proposing that a possible 37 GW of capacity could be installed by 2050, although installed capacity stood below 60 MW in February 2017.;Japan also has one of the most favourable subsidy schemes of any country, although its grid infrastructure requires significant upgrade, and this will temper progress for some years to come. Japan faces particular technical and environmental challenges, being located in an earthquake zone and experiencing regular tropical storms. Coastal waters are deep even close to shore, and as a result floating turbine projects feature heavily on the future agenda (GWEC 2014). The environmental impacts of floating turbines are being investigated at the Kabashima floating turbine demonstration project (Goto Floating Offshore Wind Turbine 2012), and it is hoped this will provide a model for future EIAs. Additional research projects at the Choshi and Kitakyushu offshore demonstration projects are looking at the impacts of fixed turbines, with a similar view to streamlining the consenting process. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport is responsible for permitting and the Ministry of Environment for regulating EIA in offshore wind installations and elsewhere.