 Determination. After consultation, the regulator will consider all evidence and comments from stakeholders and will work with senior officials to determine whether the project proposed can be granted a licence. Once a decision has been made by the regulator on whether to grant a consent or consents to develop a particular site, this decision and the justification for it must be made public. There will be a certainlength of time, sometimes undefined, during which a consent decision is subject to legal challenge. Although a legal challenge is rare, it is not unheard of and can take some time to resolve, as demonstrated by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) mounting a legal challenge against the consent to four Scottish offshore wind sites, which took just under 3 years to resolve (httpswww.telegraph.co.uk business20171107threeyearlegalwarlocalbirds won2bnoffshorewindfarm).  Consent compliance. Even under the most favourable regime, the process from early stage feasibility to irrevocable consent can take many years. However, any granting of consent will be accompanied by a number, perhaps even a very large number, of conditions requiring discharge before construction can begin. These will include the various environmental monitoring and mitigation measures thought to be appropriate according to the EIA and subsequent discussions, as well as a suite of management plans to control various aspects of construction and operational activities. Failure to meet any of these many requirements would result in a breach of consent and potentially the revocation of one or more permits.;Consenting processes and the issues encountered vary between countries. To illustrate, this section provides a brief description of key legislation, identifies the principal authorities responsible and their roles, and outlines specific requirements in several countries in northwestern Europe with an established OWF industry, as well as case studies from emerging markets elsewhere in the world.