1995 Nowacek et al. 2007 Southall et al. 2007).;Masking occurs where noise inputs make vocalisations less likely to be detected by conspecifics or other species, thereby inhibiting the detection of predator, prey or environmental signals (Clark et al. 2009). Masking can occur at received levels below those required to generate a behavioural response. The extent of interference will be determined by spectral, temporal and spatial overlap between the masking noise and the sender receiver.;A zone of hearing loss and injury may occur as a result of sound pressure high enough to cause trauma or loss of auditory senses. A temporary hearing threshold shift (TTS) is the result of a metabolic exhaustion of sensory cells in the cochlea caused by intense sounds (NMFS 2018). TTS may temporally reduce the animals ability to perceive biologically significant sounds and therefore has a similar effect as masking, although TTS persists for a period after sound exposure during which both effects can occur (Richardson et al. 1995). Within limits, TTS is reversible (e.g. Nachtigall et al. 2003 2004). Intense narrowband sounds affect hearing in similar frequency bands (up to an octave higher) whereas broadband sound has an impact mainly in a mediumfrequency band of the sound spectrum (Schlundt et al. 2000 Knust et al. 2003 Kastak et al. 2005). In pinnipeds, it has been shown that an increase in noise duration has a greater effect on TTS than an increase in received level (Kastak et al. 2005).;Repeated, prolonged or chronic exposure to high sound levels as well as brief exposure to extremely loud noise or short signal rise times, such as in underwater explosions, can inflict structural damage to sensory cells, resulting in permanent hearing threshold shift (PTS) or acoustic trauma (Richardson et al. 1995).;It is important to acknowledge that the different zones overlap and not all zones may be applicable to a given noise source (Figure 6.3). Behavioural responses may occur over the whole range where noise is audible, although the response is usually related to the loudness. Within the range of audibility of a signal, two zones remain which are to be distinguished a