Sea (Brabant et al. 2015). Looking at cumulative effects on all ecological receptors, Plateeuw et al. (2017) developed an overarching assessment framework to understand how Dutch offshore wind targets could be accommodated without endangering protected species.;In the Scottish North Sea, a study of cumulative effects on 27 seabird species concluded that in general, collisions would not cause populationlevel effects, although for European Herring Gull and Great Blackbacked Gull, certain modelling scenarios indicated cause for concern (WWT  MacArthur Green 2014). The cumulative effects of collisions from UK North Sea wind farms have since been recalculated using the final structure of the project as it is built out, rather than the results of the worst case scenario reported in the projects environmental statements. The study concluded that the originally predicted effects would be likely to be reduced in reality, although once again, in the North Sea, large Larus gulls were the species group predicted to be closest to allowable thresholds of mortality (MacArthur Green, unpublished report, 2017). It should be stressed that these studies are, by necessity, theoretical owing to the lack of evidence, but are a useful tool for the early identification of potential issues. Cook  Masden (Volume 4, Chapter 6) provide further details of the modelling process and the issues that surround it.;This review shows that evidence for bird collision with truly offshore turbines has been slow to emerge and remains a major ecological concern (Marques et al. 2014). Currently, the best available evidence on collision and avoidance comes from the study at Thanet OWF (Skov et al. 2018). This confirms findings from onshore and coastal wind farms, where they overlap with seabird distribution, that gulls as a species group are the most regular fatalities, with the main predictor apparently being the time spent in flight at rotor height. At onshore and coastal wind farms, terns are also susceptible to collision and the case study shows that, at some sites, this may be significant.