At the same time, large wind farms in particular may conceivably cause an increase in planktonic production through the windwake effect, whereby changes in Ekman transport and convergencedivergence of water masses cause downwelling and upwelling effects, which theoretically increase nutrient transportand availability to increase primary production (Brostrm et al., Chapter 3). The windwake effect may affect large areas of surrounding sea, perhaps ten times the area of the wind farm. Brostrm et al. (Chapter 3) outline the possible scale of increased production of small forage fish such as clupeids or sandeels within the planktonic pelagic food chain that supports a wide range of species and culminates in many seabirds and marine mammals (Cury et al. 2012). But an increase in primary production may conceivably be tempered by the colonisation of wind structures by filtering ecosystem engineers such as Blue Mussels. Modelling work by Slavik et al. (2018), using knowledge of the distribution of operational and proposed sites coupled with the likely colonisation patterns of Blue Mussels in the southern North Sea, suggests non negligible effects on regional annual primary production of up to a few per cent, and larger changes (10) in the phytoplankton stock and thus in water clarity during blooms. The importance of these potential pathways cannot be underestimated, but, with no current research on the topic, the scope and scale of the resultant ecological and even ecosystem effects remain unknown.;As well as interactions between predators and prey at a number of trophic levels, competitive interactions between species are expected to change as a result of the new habitats available, the changing resource base and even the different sensitivities to any effects. For example, Skeate et al. (2012) suggested that the greater tolerance of Grey Seal to construction disturbance could have led to invasion and rapid occupation of the available haulout space and local resources by this colonising species, thereby depressing the recovery of the longstanding Harbour Seal population. It is not difficult to imagine or even predict a wealth of shifts in the fortunes of one species relative to another (or others) among invertebrates, fish or birds, with some of these being of functional significance at the ecosystem level. In some cases, the increases in exploitable (edible) species, such as large fish or crabs or lobsters, due to wind farms may also be of socioeconomic importance for human populations (see Colonisation and attraction, above).