The current distribution of, and future plans for, offshore wind farms are likely to influence fish assemblages in coastal waters. In this chapter, the evidence for predicted changes in the fish community as a result of interaction with wind farms is considered, keeping a balance in the analysis that the changes are neither better nor worse ecologically, but will be different owing to the presence of artificial substrate forming habitat. The available evidence focuses on the effects on species, whereas it is also necessary for the species assemblages to be taken into account and, if possible, to translate these into ecological impacts. The effects on fish are linked to changes or responses of biologicalecological relevance and they are impacts only if they are deemed significant in this context. Specific attention is paid to whether specific species or taxa are likely to be sensitive to the environmental emissions associated with windfarm development phases, from preconstruction and construction through operation to decommissioning however, our understanding is patchy. Existing pressures on fish populations such as fishing or habitat degradation are highlighted to provide the appropriate contextual basis, but only as a backdrop against which to interpret the changes associated with wind farms. Overall, the evidence shows that fish are associated with wind farms and there may be important changes to the fish community structure and the trophic interactions within the local marine ecosystem. With the gaps in understanding, the full consequences of windfarm deployment to fish remain unclear. Targeted research to addressthese gaps, particularly relating to the causeandeffect pathways of change and trophic relationships, as well as better understanding of temporal and spatial use of wind farms for different life stages, is required to understand the changes that occur to the fish community.;Fish assemblages are already being demonstrably altered by past and present human activity. The single most significant negative impact is undoubtedly linked to fishing. In whatever form, commercial fishing has directly reduced target fish species abundance and biomass (Myers et al. 1996) and altered population dynamics and fish assemblage composition (Greenstreet  Hall 1996) for a large number of species (Frank et al. 2006). Some of the targets of fishing have suffered from overharvesting while other species have been decimated as an unfortunate consequence of indiscriminate fishing in the form of bycatch. However, other anthropogenic activities have altered the nature of habitats considerably, such that they have become limited for some species at certain stages of life, the most common examples being the degradation of coral reefs and other hardbottom areas, as well as the widespread loss of coastal mangrove forests (Mumby et al. 2006). Less direct consequences of human activity can be associated with global changes such as the widespread acidification of the oceans (Orr et al. 2005). The impact on fish development is yet to be fully determined but there is little doubt that this is another significant pressure on the fish assemblages (Munday et al. 2010).;The development of offshore wind farms (OWFs) and the associated powercable network infrastructure represent one of the single most significant changes to be experienced in areas of coastal and offshore marine environments in recent times (Inger et al. 2009 Boehlert  Gill 2010). Fish are one the major groups of organisms, comprising thousands of species around the world sharing these coastal and offshore environments with existing or planned OWFs. A number of fish species also have importance in terms of their commercial value as fisheries. The questions then arise How do