Responsibility for transposing the requirements of each piece of EU legislation into national law lies with the individual member state. This can lead to conflicting interpretations between countries. Within the southern North Sea, for example, a significant region for offshore wind, there are multiple international marine boundaries within a relatively small area, and the nations within these boundaries each have their own strategy for offshore wind development and interpretation of the EU Directives. As projects grow larger and move closer to these boundaries, transboundary issues may become more significant, with potential consequencesfor neighbouring nations.;As the development of offshore wind increases globally, legislation in nonEuropean countries is also starting to frame the context of offshore wind deployment. However, as OWFs are relatively new to these countries, some adaptation is required to ensure that the legislation can account for the development of wind energy within the marine environment. Depending on the country, the legislation may differ and can be illustrated by the differences in legislative provision among a number of countries such as Japan, China, Taiwan and the USA. These nations are becoming more prominent in the offshore wind market and will be discussed in greater detail within the Consenting process and issues theme, later in this chapter.;It should be noted that all projects requiring loans from international banks also have to conform to World Bank Equator principles and International Finance Corporation performance standards. This is not formally a legislative requirement but does in many countries, especially developing nations, set a rather high standard for environmental studies and assessments compared to Europe and North America for example, and may be more stringent than local legislation.;A final note on nonEU countries is reserved for the, soon to be exEU, UK. At this time, an EU Withdrawal Bill is being debated by the UK Government and it is not yet clear how exactly the UK will extricate itself from the jurisdiction of European law. It is likely that a large body of existing legislation will be transferred directly to UK domestic law, as this is most straightforward approach, and would result in little discernible change to current consenting regimes, at least in the short term. However, from the formal Brexit date onwards, the UK will no longer be obliged to comply with EU requirements. Within the arena of environmental regulation, there has been concern that independent administration of neighbouring countries can have a detrimental effect on the assessment and management of environmental impacts, especially given that environmental stressors such as noise and emissions to air and water, as well as the receptors they affect, such as water masses,