Another widely adopted approach is the beforeafter control impact (BACI) design. In OWF displacement studies, the extent of the survey area in a BACI setup is typically smaller than in BAG studies. Samples are taken before and after windfarm construction, in and around the OWF as well as in an undisturbed control area. The BACI approach assumes that naturally occurring changes will appear in both the control and impact sites (Oedekoven et al. 2013). In the case of no windfarm effect, the trends in numbers of both areas are therefore expected to run parallel and any trend deviation between the impact and control areas is attributed to the presence of the OWF (Box 8.2). It is therefore very important for any underlying and explanatory variables driving the response variableto be similar, or at least to vary in an equal manner, in both areas. If not, these explanatory variables need to be accounted for during modelling (StewartOaten  Bence 2001). Preferably, the control area will be close by and highly similar to the impact area in terms of species distribution and oceanographic variables, for any large scale environmental changes to affect both areas, yet far enough away not to be influenced by the impact itself (StewartOaten et al. 1986). As seabird numbers are generally subject to high temporal variation, replication in time is strongly advised and, ideally, samples in the control and impact areas are taken simultaneously (Bernstein  Zalinski 1983 StewartOaten et al. 1986 Maclean et al. 2013). In both BAG and BACI, as many baseline years as possible should be sampled to account for natural yeartoyear variation in bird abundance and distribution (Fox et al. 2006). For the same reason, a postconstruction monitoring period of 35 years is commonly applied, and extending this time frame may strongly improve the statistical power to detect changes in seabird abundance (Maclean et al. 2013 Vanermen et al. 2015a).;At the Belgian Bligh Bank, a beforeafter controlimpact (BACI) monitoring programme was designed to detect seabird displacement following offshore wind farm (OWF) construction in 2010 (Vanermen et al. 2015b 2016). Boatbased seabird counts were conducted according to the standardised and internationally applied European Seabirds at Sea (ESAS) method, combining a transect count for birds on the water and repeated snapshot counts for flying birds (Tasker et al. 1984 Camphuysen et al. 2004). The applied transect was 300 m wide and was counted along one side of the ship. The (future) OWF area was surrounded by a buffer zone of 3 km to define the impact area, where effects of the wind farm on the presence of seabirds could potentially occur. A nearby control area was also delineated, harbouring comparable numbers and