Figure 7.4 Presumed main factors influencing bird and bat migration over the sea. The intensity of migration is generally dependent on season andtime of day, with the individual decision to depart being shaped by intrinsic factors as well as, for example, by the current weather or food situation. En route weather as well as individual body condition and the length of the intended flight determine the flight altitude and the readiness to respond to artificially illuminated structures at sea in order to forage or seek shelter.;Depending on the observation method (see Molis et al., Volume 4, Chapter 5), time of day and season, distance from the coast, the geographic location in general and the behaviour of the species, the recorded composition of bird species offshore can vary substantially. It is thus rather difficult to state which bird species or groups of species dominate the range of species observed at sea. Radar echoes of birds flying over the open oceans were identified as seabirds, waterfowl, shorebirds and even passerines (Williams  Williams 1990). Seawatching studies generally revealed that seabirds, gulls, terns, ducks, and geese, as well as waders at more coastal sites, dominate the species composition at sea during daytime (e.g. Edelstam 1972 Camphuysen  van Dijk 1983 Dierschke 2003 Hppop et al. 2004 2006 2010 Jakobsen 2008 Ellermaa  Lindn 2015).;Figure 7.3 shows two examples of bird species composition recorded with different techniques from offshore platforms in the northern Gulf of Mexico, with varying distances to the nearest shore of 8204 km and water depths of approximately 11535 m, and in the German North Sea at about 45 km from the coast and a water depth of almost 30 m (FINO 1). Daytime observations revealed that waterfowl and wading birds comprise about half to fourfifths of the birds recorded offshore (Figure 7.3a, (c). The higher proportion of songbirds observed at the northern Gulf of Mexico platforms compared to their proportion at FINO 1 is partly due to the additional recording of birds using the platform for stopover (Russell 2005). With acoustic registrations at night, the pattern was seemingly different, with about 7685 of the recorded birds being passerines (Figure 7.3b, (d). This apparent discrepancy can, to some extent, be explained by the recording techniques. A noticeable difference between the flightcall recordings at the two locations may be the lack of gulls and terns at the platform in the northern Gulf of Mexico (Figure 7.3b). The two examples in Figure 7.3, however, illustrate, on the one hand, what one would expect to