Studies at Egmond aan Zee OWF in the Netherlands, with piles of 4.6 m pile diameter, showed that the residual stream from the scour pit downward of the scour protection had a maximum depth of 2.2 m.;In some cases, the creation of a scour pit can impact on the stability of a monopile and thus additional material is placed into the scour pit. Normally, this material is of such a size and density that it is not eroded by normal wave and tidal conditions. Types of scour protection include rocks of approximately 10 cm diameter, rock gabions, grout bags and shale.;At some sites, such as Burbo Bank in the UK (Carroll et al. 2010) and Egmond aan Zee OWF in the Netherlands (NoordzeeWind 2008), scour protection has taken the form of a layer of coarse material such as small pieces of slate, installed at each turbine location before the installation of the piles (DECC  Defra 2008). The purpose of this is to prevent scouring, rather than having to take remedial action to fill scour pits once they have formed. Whitehouse et al. (2011) further describe the approaches for the use of scour protection as (1) placement of smallsized rock or gravel directly on the seabed as a preparatory layer, which acts as a filter layer on the seabed and can be placed before installation of the foundation or before scour has had time to develop (2) placement of larger rock as an armour layer on top of the preparatory filter later and (3) placement of widely graded rock in the scour pit formed around the structure.;These scour protection rocks constitute a colonising habitat for hardsubstrate species, following a gradual development in species composition over the years, as shown by Bouma and Lengkeek (2012) for Egmond aan Zee OWF in the Netherlands (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). Some proof is available that they also attract larger fish (Winter et al. 2010 van Hal et al. 2012 Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5). It has also been postulated that these hard substrates in soft or mobile substrate areas may provide the vector for the spread of certain invasive species (Adams et al. 2014).