 Tripod. As the name suggests, tripods comprise three legs extending from a central column and fixed in place using pin piles. These extremely stable structures are well suited to deepwaters and require minimum seabed preparation. Again, they tend to be significantly more expensive than monopiles. The installation process for tripod foundations is very similar to that undertaken for the jacket foundation however, pin piles in this instance tend to be even smaller and may therefore require a different hammer size.; Gravity base. Unlike other designs, the gravity base rests directly on the seabed, relying on concrete and ballast weight to hold it in place. Significant seabed preparation is required for installation and handling can become difficult farther offshore, with deeper water requiring a larger and heavier structure. Depending on the design of the structure, the gravity base foundation either can be floated out to position to be placed on to the seabed, or requires the use of a heavy lift crane to position it in place. Installation of the gravitybase foundation does not require any piling and therefore will not emit noise from piling activities.; Suction bucketcaisson. This cylindrical steel bucketshaped structure is upturned so the open end is facing down. The suction bucket is only suitable for use on soft sediments and is a relatively new foundation type for offshore wind, but has been used extensively in the oil and gas industry. The installation process involves the steel bucket being placed on the seabed with the use of pumps, to pump the water out of the bucket, lowering the pressure inside the bucket causing the foundation to sink into the seafloor. This process does not require the use of piledriving hammers and therefore will not emit noise from piling activities. Vattenfalls European Offshore Wind Deployment Centre, located in Aberdeen Bay and under construction at the time of writing, is deploying an innovative new foundation concept involving a jacket structure secured by suction caisson anchoring, negating the need for any piling operations at all during installation.  Floating. Floating offshore wind technology is rapidly gaining commercial viability and is expected to become more common within the next few decades as interest increases in developing offshore wind projects in deeper waters. Although there are over 30 floating wind concepts under development at the time