Using all survey data available, a multicovariate distance analysis was performed to correct the counted numbers of Longtailed Ducks for varying detectability. Based on the Akaike information criterion, survey, sea state, behaviour, group size and observer were all selected as covariates to model the detection function. This detection model was then used to estimate the number of seaducks present in eachtransect segment of 0.5 km in length and twice the truncation distance of 0.966 km in width.;The abundance estimates obtained after distance sampling were modelled using a spatially adaptive generalised additive model (GAM) (Hastie  Tibshirani 1990). The model included a smooth term for depth and a spatially adaptive two dimensional smooth term for the spatial surface. These smoothers were permitted to differ before and after construction. As the collected data comprised repeated visits to transects over time, it was considered unlikely that the model residuals would be independent within transects. For this reason, generalised estimating equations (GEEs) were used to generate more realistic confidence intervals for modelbased differences before and after construction. The panels for the GEEs were chosen to be transectdays based on the inspection of autocorrelation functions. Residuals within transects on a given day were thus permitted to be correlated, but independence was assumed between transects on a given day, as well as between days for a given transect. The uncertainty in the detection process and parameter uncertainty in the GAM GEE model was combined using a twostep bootstrap approach, leading to 500,000 predictions for each 0.966 km2 cell of a prediction grid covering the full survey area. For each set of predictions, the differences between estimated Longtailed Duck numbers pre and postconstruction across the prediction grid were calculated and the 95 confidence intervals for these differences were assessed.;The modelbased results were used to generate an after minus before surface map, which indicates an estimated drop in Longtailed Duck numbers in and around the wind farm, with an apparent displacement into neighbouring waters farther from the wind farm. There was evidence for significant decreases in Longtailed Duck numbers only in survey grid cells between the turbines, despite the fact that the model was not informed about the OWF location, compared to significant increases in waters farther from the OWF (Figure 8.2).