Any uncertainty and relative lack of information has not constrained development, however, as after the slow start described above, development has been rapid in recent years. By the end of 2017, a total of 4,149 turbines had been connected to the grid in 92 OWFs in the North and Baltic Seas (Wind Europe 2018). Clearly, many national regulators in northwestern Europe have been sure that consented sites do not represent a significant risk to any wildlife either in isolation or in a cumulative capacity. The fact that very few wind farms have been rejected as a result of potential impacts upon wildlife, invariably on birds, could be testament to good planning in the first place (debated by Kppel et al., Volume 4, Chapter 9) or could mask a more fundamental lack of understanding of the actual effects of OWFs. In this context, Greenet al. (2016) argued that scientific knowledge of the likely population effects of relatively wellstudied seabirds is still lacking, whereas others, such as Cleasby et al. (2015), question the accuracy of the underpinning data and how this may underestimate impacts. In addition, Scott et al. (2013, 2014) consider whether researchers are even asking the right questions in relation to the potential effectsimpacts on seabirds.;So, fundamentally, have we accumulated enough knowledge to avoid significant impacts and achieve the ultimate objective of a winwin for wind power and wildlife (Kiesecker et al. 2011)? Knowledge lies at the core of achieving that goal, the expansion of which has been the fundamental aim of this book series. Within that wider context, this chapter aims to describe and assess the current state of the science in relation to the effects and impacts of offshore wind upon wildlife.;This final chapter in Volume 3 attempts to synthesise the findings of the preceding chapters that describe effects and impacts (Box 10.1) in order to provide a platform for Volume 4, which describes the monitoring tools available and outlines the means of mitigating the most likely impacts. This synthesis fundamentally relies on the material presented and conclusions reached by the expert authors of the chapters although some attempt is also made to explore the ramifications of important points as well as the nature of any effects and impacts described. The latter includes both where effects and impacts have been shown and therefore realised , but also where they have the potential to occur from a consideration of ecological principles. Moreover, whereas the authors have generally utilised peerreviewed contributions as the gold standard for veracity (Lovich  Ennen 2017), this chapter also uses supporting information from the grey literature in reports or websites. It is important to state that this chapter is a personal perspective and while I have faithfully tried to represent the findings of the respective authors, my interpretation of the information they provide may differ, and readers are encouraged to also refer to the