Correctly modelling seabird count data can be quite challenging for a number of reasons. First of all, considering the often patchy distribution of seabirds, count data tend to show large variance andor a high proportion of zero values, leading to overdispersion, even after having included all relevant or available explanatory variables. Overdispersion can be accounted for using a negative binomial, or, alternatively, a zeroinflated distribution (Potts  Elith 2006 ver Hoef  Boveng 2007 Zeileis et al. 2008). The latter splits the model in two parts a binomial part modelling the (excess in) zeros, and a count part modelling the positive values according to a Poisson or negative binomial distribution. Secondly, seabird count data may exhibit nonlinear relationships with environmental or spatial covariates, which can be modelled through a generalised additive model or the spatially more flexible complex region spatial smoother (Oedekoven et al. 2013 Mackenzie et al. 2013). Lastly, owing to consecutive sampling along transect lines, collected data are expected to show some level of autocorrelation, implying that counts collected close to each other in either time or space are more similar than more distant counts, thereby violating the assumption of residual independence. This spatiotemporal correlation issue can be accounted for by including userspecified random effects in a generalised additive mixed model (Leopold et al. 2013 Vallejo et al. 2017) or by applying generalised estimating equations (Mackenzie et al. 2013). Better still, accounting for spatial correlation may be achieved through Bayesian modelling techniques, of which theintegrated nested Laplace approximation approach is gaining popularity as it has proven to be a userfriendly alternative to the computationally very demanding Markov chain Monte Carlo technique (Rue et al. 2009).;Finally, there are several ways to illustrate OWF displacement evidence. In a BACI framework, the OWF effect is generally estimated by the interaction between the area (controlimpact) and time factor (beforeafter). In a BAG model, the OWF location can also be included in the model as a factor variable, testing the level and significance of its effect on the response variable (Leopold et al. 2013). More often, though, the model structure does not incorporate windfarm location, and instead a distribution map of pre to postimpact differences in abundance is generated. Significant pre to postimpact changes centred inside and around the OWF can then reliably be attributed to the OWF.;Information on seabird displacement was compiled based on the results of monitoring studies in 16 different European OWFs. As already mentioned in the Scope above, very different methodologies have been applied, making consistent interpretation difficult and somewhat subjective. When different reports or publications on the same OWF were available, only the one including most recent data and applying the most uptodate approach in terms of data processing and modelling was considered. In general, one key reference was considered per OWF, although in some cases different references were used for different species (Table 8.1). For example, at Robin Rigg OWF, Canning et al. (2013) report extensively on a range of species, while Vallejo et al. (2017) performed more advanced modelling on Common Guillemot in a further study. It should also be noted that not all species considered in the studies listed in Table 8.1 were included in this exercise. The preferred modelling strategy could not always be performed because of insufficient positive observations, and even if it was, the authors sometimes concluded that the results for certain species could be