Even in isolation, an OWF may have a range of what may be seen as negative, neutral and positive effects on wildlife. As development continues, any effects will magnify in a cumulative context. In terms of generally positive effects, wind farms may exert a strong artificial reef effect by creating new habitat for colonising hard substratum species and, in turn, providing prey and habitat for mobile invertebrates and fish. As such, wind farms may become biodiversity hotspots (Dannheim et al., Chapter 4). This provides a case to retain the bases even following decommissioning of a site in a renewables to reefs initiative, although retention is also favoured by the technical difficulty of removing bases in the first place. Conceptually, the value of wind farms as reefs may be furtherenhanced where they extend preexisting hardbottom habitats with diverse fauna vertically upwards to the water surface. However, placing wind farms in hard substrate depends on the use of currently expensive gravity bases as alternatives to driven monopiles (see Jameson et al., Chapter 1). Perhaps especially where fishing activity is restricted, there is even the prospect of wind farms becoming Marine Protected Areas, either in their own right or as part of a wider area.;The installation of wind farms provides considerable scope for cascading effects through the food web as a result of the new trophic system set up around bases, with potential to create resources for apex predators, as well as affecting primary production of surrounding seas through the filtering capacity of a large biomass of Blue Mussels. In addition, the windwake effect at large wind farms leading to upwelling and increasing nutrient transport may ultimately manifest as an increase in the biomass of forage fishes such as clupeids or sandeels, perhaps to the benefit of seabirds and marine mammals.;As it stands, while there is some indication that seals benefit from developing wind farms, only a few seabird species, notably Great Cormorant, appear to have proved able to exploit the resources contained within. Far more seabird species appear to be disturbed and thus displaced, although there is potential for habituation as time passes. The fundamental reasons for displacement remain unclear, although fear of novel structures, awareness of collision risk, disturbance by vessels, the lack of suitable pelagic forage fish, and competition with predatory fish andor seals for forage fish all remain possibilities. There is some suggestion that displacement begins during construction for some species, which could link with the displacement of fish during noisy construction in a similar manner as occurs for Harbour Porpoise. Unfortunately, construction effects on fish have not yet been adequately studied.