In the same way that each wind turbine will have a particular wind wake that stretches downwind, and spreads upwards and downwards to the surface, the wind farm, as a collection of turbines, will leave a similar pattern behind itself. The wake behind an entire wind farm has been much less studied than the wake behind each turbine, for the simple reasons that the wake behind each turbine is (i) easier to study and (ii) has considerable economic value as it connects directly to energy production and windfarm optimisation. Thus, the extent of the wind wake behind large wind farms is much less understood than the wake from each turbine. Nonetheless, it may be claimed with some certainty that the wind velocity is reduced by, say, 1030 and possibly up to 50, compared to the surrounding area (Christiansen  Hasager 2005 Fitch et al. 2012 Ludewig 2013, 2015) The size of the wakeis difficult to study but appears to be rather long, possibly with a characteristic efolding length scale that may be two to four times the characteristic size of the wind farm offshore. High wind speed in ocean areas results from low turbulence over the smooth ocean, and low turbulence levels imply that the return to normal atmospheric conditions beyond a wind farm will take longer distance over the ocean than over land. The exact properties of the wake will depend on the size and configuration of the wind farm and the wind conditions at the specific location.;The reduction in wind speed and increase in turbulence levels will impact on ocean dynamics through changes in wind stress and exchange of heat and moisture at the surface. In addition, the slowing down of the wind by the wind farm will cause air to rise above a wind farm, which will be likely to increase precipitation above it and bring drier air downwind (Rooijmans 2004 Takle 2017). Again, this effect has not been targeted in many studies and additional studies are required in order for it to be quantified.;The aim of this chapter is to outline the response of the upper ocean circulation on the wind wake downwind from a wind farm. There have not been many studies on this topic and much is based on theoretical predictions, simplified numerical simulations, and a single observational study at the Alpha Ventus wind farm in the German economic zone on the northwest European continental shelf (Box 3.1).