An important part of evaluating the impact from a wind farm is determining the effect upon productivity in the natural system. Taking the northern North Sea as an example, new production is roughly 3050 g carbon (C)m2 per year (Richardson  Pedersen 1998 Richardson et al. 2000 Heath  Beare 2008). The system has a strong annual cycle with a pronounced spring bloom, while the summer usually has lower productivity owing to low nutrient levels (Burchard et al. 2006).;For a wind farm that is 55 km2, there may be an upwelling in the order of 2,000 m3s or about 2108 m3 per day (Box 3.3 and Box 3.4). If this water is supplied from nutrientrich layers near the sea floor with, say, a nitrate concentration of 10 mmol NO3m3, this may fuel new production in the order of 30 g Cm2 per year, which is similar to the natural annual production in the North Sea. This could be in an area around 20 times that of the wind farm. However, making a detailed prediction on the response in the production is beyond the scope of what can be achieved here, and this number is highly uncertain. In addition, the size of the affected area probably depends on the ecosystems ability to utilise the increased nutrient levels and it is questionable whether all upwelled nutrients would drive new production. There are some questionable assumptions in the back of an envelope calculations presented in Box 3.4, but, nevertheless, it points to a likely scenario that upwelling induced by wind farms may have a strong effect on the productivity around the wind farms.;Increased productivity will lead to an increase in fish production that would be of benefit to the fishing industry as well as attracting and supporting various birds, larger fish and marine mammals. Thus, wind farms may produce areas with rich and diverse marine life (see Dannheim et al., Chapter 4  Gill  Wilhelmsson, Chapter 5) exploited by top predators (Nehls et al., Chapter 6 Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8). However, a highly productive windfarm area may have some disbenefits, such as the attraction of seabirds to the site (Vanermen  Stienen, Chapter 8) and the potential for more birdblade collisions (King, Chapter 9). In addition, increased primary production could carry a price in the form of eutrophication and the potential for toxic algal blooms and increased areas with low oxygen levels near the seabed, although