In this Volume 3, the concept was to cover as wide a taxonomicspread as possible, starting with Seabed communities of mainly invertebrates, and then covering Fish, Marine mammals, Migratory nonseabirds and bats, before dealing with Seabirds in two separate chapters on displacement and collision. All chapters were to outline potential as well as realised effects and possible impacts. To accompany the chapters on the taxonomic groups, the scene was set by an introductory chapter on the Nature of wind farms, with a further chapter on Physical effects (and to a lesser extent Chemical effects) of wind farms and Atmosphere and ocean dynamics, outlining what may prove to be a critically important field in terms of its ecological consequences. A Synthesis of effects and impacts upon all the taxonomic groups and encompassing the physical effects is then provided in a standalone chapter at the end of the volume. As it was completed after all other chapters, this summary chapter had the benefit of incorporating more recent information published in the intervening period.;To promote coherence within and across volumes, a consistent style was adopted for all chapters, with seven subheadings Summary, Introduction, Scope, Themes, Concluding remarks, Acknowledgements and References. For ease of reference, the latter are reproduced after each chapter. The carefully selected sub headings break from standard academic structure (i.e. some derivative of Abstract, Introduction, Methods, Results and Conclusions) in order to provide flexibility for the range of chapters over the two volumes, many of which are reviews of information, whereas others provide more prescriptive recommendations or even original research. Some subheadings require a little explanation. For example, the Summary provides a 300word overview of the entire chapter, whilst the Concluding remarks provide both conclusions and any recommendations in a section of generally 500 words. The Scope sets the objectives of the chapter, and for the benefit of the reader describes what is, and what is not, included. Any methods are also incorporated therein. The Themes provide the main body of the text, generally divided into as few subheading levels as possible. Division between effects during construction and operation was generally avoided as this increased the number of subheadings and led to an unwieldy structure. Any clear differences in effects between different stages of windfarm