In simple terms, any changes to habitat, routes of movement, feeding opportunities, predator abundance and distribution of fish andor alteration of the ambient environment could each individually have some significance for fish, or perhaps more importantly, they may occur simultaneously in a particular area or at a particular time so as to act in combination (Willsteed et al. 2017). The prediction of how fish may be affected by OWFs will depend on their stage of life and how long the changes will last. Change may be over a short, defined period during which environmental conditions vary, for example construction over a few months, or a longterm feature, such as the turbine structures, present throughout the life of the fish. The effects also may be considered as direct or indirect in nature. Those that are direct, an example being construction noise causing fish to swim away from an area, are the easiest for researchers to perceive and study, whereas the indirect effects, such as foodweb related changes, are more complex and likely to occur over longer periods, making them more difficult to understand while also complicating the determination of effects (Gill 2005).;The expectation from the literature is that OWFs will influence local fish presence and abundance, with consequences for species interactions such as predatorprey dynamics, foodweb connectivity and the fish community structure in terms of species abundance, body size of individuals and population demographics (Gill 2005 Raoux et al. 2017). How the scale of these effects, both direct and indirect, may influence the ecological changes associated with OWFs in isolation and cumulatively is regarded as an important but as yet unanswered topic (Boehlert  Gill 2010 Wilding et al. 2017 Willsteed et al. 2017). Furthermore, the significance of existing pressures on fish, such as fishing, habitat degradation and ocean acidification, needs to be acknowledged to enable appropriate interpretation of the changes that are associated with OWFs. In essence, the key questions relate to whether OWFs cause populationlevel effects, perhaps for some species cumulatively, that can be compared to any degree with changes resulting from other