International Maritime Organization (IMO) Guidelines and Standards for the Removal of Offshore Installations and Structures on the Continental Shelf and in the Exclusive Economic Zone IMO Resolution A.672 (paragraph 3.5) states that where entire removal would involve an unacceptable risk to the marine environment, the coastal State may determine that it need not be fully removed. And the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the NorthEast Atlantic (OSPAR) Windfarm Guidance 20083 (paragraph 93) correspondingly states that if the competent national authority decides that a component of the windfarm should remain at site (e.g. parts of the piles in the seabed, scour protection materials), it should be ensured that they have no adverse impact on the environment, the safety of navigation and other uses of the sea. This guidance especially links to a provision in the OSPAR document Decision 983 on the Disposal of Disused Offshore Installations, which states in paragraph 8d that The assessment of the disposal options shall take into account impacts on the marine environment, including exposure of biota to contaminants associated with the installation, otherbiological impacts arising from physical effects, conflicts with the conservation of species, with the protection of their habitats, or with mariculture which could allow a partial removal of the decommissioned wind farm if it would pose a risk to the biota that had developed at the site during the operational life. Any site for which a partial decommissioning is considered would need a full assessment of its viability. However, despite the navigational safety considerations, the energy costs, labour costs and safety issues during removal of such structures may mean that it is more costbeneficial to leave parts in place, especially where the aim is to protect and enhance the habitat at the decommissioned site.;If implemented appropriately and with consideration of the ten tenets framework for achieving sustainable management (Elliott 2013 Barnard  Elliott 2015), a renewablestoreefs (Smyth et al. 2015) decommissioning scheme involving only partial removal of the wind farm, hence leaving in places benthic aspects such as foundations, scour protection and possibly the lower part of the monopile (or jackettripod in the case of alternative models), could ensure protection for ecologically valuable sites and allow for the regeneration of the disturbed marine environment, at the same time conferring societal benefits. The ten tenets require that ecological, economic, technological, legal, political, administrative, ethical, societal, cultural and communication aspects are included in the decision making. Colocating other activities such as recreation or conservation at the decommissioned site is also possible (Christie et al. 2014) and has the added benefit of easing demands on limited space for development in the marine environment. These measures could be achieved with an integrated marine management framework (Elliott 2014 Elliott et al. 2017). Such an integrated framework is required to include the causes of the impacts from the activities and pressures in the sea, the consequences of those impacts for the natural and societal systems, including effects on ecosystem services and societal goods and benefits, the main stakeholders and the regulatory regimes, and the management responses. Importantly, it requires either modifying the ecosystem to enhance the ecology or at least providing the appropriate