Most OWFs are built on soft substrata such as sandy seabeds, muds and clays. These sites are generally preferred by windfarm developers, first because of the relative ease of installing turbines in soft rather than harder substrata, and secondly because these habitats predominate in the relatively shallow waters usually selected for windfarm development, such as the southern North Sea. In soft substrata, communities are generally dominated by burrowing organisms, which themselves play a key role in the structuring of the environment through biogenic transformationsincluding bioconstruction, bioturbation, sediment stabilisation and sediment destabilisation (Reise 2002 Gray  Elliott 2009). Epibenthic organisms may act as harder substratum in a sedimentary environment, providing anchorage points for algal species, which in turn provide habitat and food for primary consumers (Gutierrez et al. 2003).;Soft substrata and their inhabiting communities are impacted by the introduction of artificial hard substratum at three scales (1) the microscale, involving changes to the material and texture of the habitat such as sediment composition (2) the mesoscale, considering, for example, the introduction of scour protection at a single turbine scale and (3) the macroscale, considering changes at the scale of the whole wind farm (Petersen  Malm 2006). Changes to the softsediment environment occur particularly at the micro and mesoscales.;Two direct impacts on soft substrata can be distinguished. First, habitat loss occurs under the footprint of the foundation and scour protection, but also below toppings of interarray and export cables. Although the total loss of communities is permanent, this impact may still be considered minor given that the artificial hard substrata typically only covers less than 1 of the total windfarm surface area (Petersen  Malm 2006). Secondly, the original habitat may be smothered by the dredging, disposal and displacement of sediments in the preparation of the construction area (Gray  Elliott 2009), ultimately covering a larger proportion of the windfarm surface area than the footprint of the turbines (van den Eynde et al. 2013). This is particularly true for gravitybase foundations for which much sediment is moved, but is less of a problem for the more commonly used monopile foundations. While the impact of smothering of the softsubstrata communities may be more important in spatial extent, its duration appears short lived (Coates et al. 2013) and the original sediment type may be regained if the introduced fine sediment is winnowed out of the sediment by the prevailing hydrographic regime, including the tidal, winddriven and residual currents.;Indirect effects are likely to be most prominent on softsediment communities. For example, turbine foundations change local currents (Leonhard et al. 2006 Rees  Judd, Chapter 2), which