The first species index was developed for the German waters of the southern North Sea (Garthe  Hppop 2004). Sensitivity was scored on a scale of 15 for nine factors based on existing knowledge and expert judgement and combined to form a risk index incorporating both collision and displacement. The attributes used as collision risk indicators were flight altitude, manoeuvrability, percentage of time flying during the day and a nocturnal activity factor. These were combined with the species biogeographic population size, adult survival rate and conservationstatus. The indices were combined with density distributions of seabirds in German waters to map areas of high windfarm sensitivity on an annual and a seasonal basis. Overall, seabirds were assessed as most vulnerable to wind farms located closest to the German coast, where bird densities were consistently higher. Subsequently, developers avoided those sensitive areas. A similar approach used for seabirds in the Dutch North Sea reached similar conclusions (Leopold  Dijkman 2010).;Furness et al. (2013) refined this model by calculating separate indices for collision and disturbance. While the collision predictors proposed by Garthe and Hppop (2004) were considered robust, the percentage of birds at rotor height was used rather than a 15 score and the calculation was weighted to reflect the strong influence of this factor on collision risk (Band 2012). Overall, the large Larus gulls were considered to be at greatest risk of collision, with Great Blackbacked Gull (Figure 9.7), European Herring Gull and Lesser Blackbacked Gull given estimated percentages of time at blade height of the earlier generation of turbines, such as 3.6 MW machines (Figure 9.4), of 35, 31 and 27 respectively. These values multiplied by onethird (manoeuvrability score  percentage of time flying score  nocturnal flight score) multiplied by conservation score (ranked by index value) took these three species to the top of the rankings of concern of collision risk. See Furness et al. (2013) for details of the basis for these calculations.