RisI1206(EN) 5mass and water substance. These equations are mathematical relations between each atmospheric variable and their temporal and spatial derivatives. Mathemat ical models of the atmosphere can be obtained by integrating the relevant equa tions with special initial and boundary conditions. The equations can be solved numerically by forward marching in time, using the time rates of change of the variables the derivatives are replaced by ratios of finite differences, and changes of the variables over a certain time interval are computed repeatedly as long as needed. The atmosphere contains motions with scales varying from about 1 mm to t housands of kilometers. Ideally, mathematical models should be constructed from observations with one millimeter spatial and with a fraction of a second tempo ral resolution. Clearly, this is impossible in practice, and models are constructed separately for systems on different scales. Thus, for example, there are models for local circulations such as sea breezes, for flow over mountains, for weather devel opments over Europe, or for the entire globe. Depending on the system modelled, the equations can be simplified and for the development of wind power mete orology the starting point is the simplest model for motion in the atmosphere steady winds over very extensive plains under an overcast sky or, in other word s a stationary wind field over an infinite flat plane of uniform roughness with neutral stratification. The only quantity of interest is the variation of wind speed with height. Straightforward physical considerations 2, 8 lead to the wellknown logarithmic wind profile, which is determined solely by three variables the height above ground, the roughness length and the friction velocity. The roughness length parameterizes the roughness of the surface and the friction velocity parameterizes the frictional force between the moving air and the ground. From the starting point of the infinite plate at rest, we move to the rotating earth. Far away from the ground, the atmosphere can not feel the friction and the flow is in equilibrium with the pressure force and the Coriolis force. The latter is caused by the rotation of the Earth. The resulting wind is called the geostrophic wind. Moving down to the surface, the wind changes from geostrophic speed to zero speed at the height of the roughness length. At the same time the wind direction changes, rotating anticlockwise on the northern hemisphere and clockwise on the southern hemisphere. The balance between the forces can be derived theoretically under the idealized conditions of stationarity, homogeneity and barotropic stratification (the pressure gradient being constant over the depth of the boundary layer). For the conditions of neutral stability, the balance can be expressed as a relation  the geostrophic drag law  between the surface friction velocity and the geostrophic wind, with the roughness length and the Coriolis force as parameters, see Eq. (3). The geostrophic wind can be calculated from the surface pressure gradient and is often close to the wind speed observed by radiosondes above the boundary layer. The combination of the logarithmic wind profile and the geostrophic drag law provides us with an easytohandle model atmosphere the Coriolis parameter is known for a given location and the roughness length can be estimated from the characteristics of the ground cover. Hence, if we can determine the geostrophic wind, the friction velocity can be calculated from the drag law and, in turn, applied in the logarithmic profile to calculate the wind speed at a desired height. Now we introduce weather and climate the atmosphere is no longer assumed stationary, but characterized by synoptic activity, i.e. the passing of high and low pressure systems. The geostrophic wind has a climatological variation, which we need to estimate in order to get the climatology of the surface wind. This was the philosophy behind the Danish Wind Atlas work (197780) 2. Surface pressure data measured every third hour over 13 years at 55 stations in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, and Poland, were used to calculate a 13year timeseries of the