However, they are very fast and easy to use and this makes them very attrac tive. Most linear models are diagnostic models. Nonlinear models require more computing resources. The scale of the model influences which forces must be included in the model. In a terrain where the length scale of the variations is less than approximately 10 km, Coriolis forces are not important for calculating perturbations from the mean flow. However, nonhydrostatic accelerations are important on small hills. This is just the reverse for synopticscale flows, where Coriolis effects cannot be neglected, but the hydrostatic approximation works well. Friction is important for flow near the surface. However, models with very sim ple or essentially no surface friction describe atmospheric flows surprisingly well, because the direct effects of friction are confined to a shallow layer near the surface 84. Also, the description of the deformation of turbulence in flow over hills by rapiddistortion theory is frictionless. Most linear, spectral models use Fast Fourier Transforms to solve for variations in the horizontal directions, assuming periodic domains. Atmospheric mesoscale models are grid point models and they should have open boundaries. WAsP em ploys polar coordinates. Consequently, it is not periodic, though it is a spectral model. The distinction between flow models and wind climate models concerns mainly the ease of use of the models for wind power applications. WAsP is mainly a wind climate model. It is very easy to use for wind power applications, where the focus is on a small number of specific sites, but not very convenient for the calculation of flow fields. Other meteorological models more easily calculate the individual flow fields. However, it is also more complicated to determine wind climatologies from these individual calculations. Wind climate models must contain a flow model. In addition, they often do the data assimilation in order to establish the climatology. The choice between different models depends on the application in question, the available computing and human resources and the available input data. A good model can never make up for bad input data. Therefore, it is important to find accurate and efficient descriptions of the climatology of the input data. For WAsP, this description is given by the Weibull parameters in different direction sectors.;An efficient method of predicting the surface wind climate is to combine a mesoscale model and a microscale model. The mesoscale model simulates the regional wind climate like flow over and around mountain ranges and in large valleys. The lo cal model calculates the speedup and sheltering by hills, local obstacles, and local roughness conditions. Such a procedure is illustrated in Fig. 18, where the Karlsruhe Atmospheric Mesoscale Model, KAMM 85, 86, is combined with the microscale model WAsP 7, 9. KAMM calculates the mesoscale wind field using as input a description of the synoptic scale climatology, as well as orography and roughness maps. The climatology of the simulated wind fields and the local orog raphy and roughnesses are subsequently used by WAsP to predict the local wind climate. The statisticaldynamical approach of regionalization of largescale climatolo gy 87 is used to calculate the regional surface wind climate with KAMM. It is assumed that the regional surface layer climate is determined uniquely by a few parameters of the larger synoptic scale, plus the parameters of the surface. This parameter space is decomposed into several representative situations and numer ical simulations of these are performed with the mesoscale model. The mesoscale climatology is finally calculated from the results of the simulations together with the frequency of the typical situations.