Figure 8. (a) Model spectra of the streamwise velocity component 50 m a.g.l. in flat terrain for neutral (L infinite), stable (L  30 m) and unstable (L  30 m) conditions, where L is the MoninObukhov length 34, 35, 36. The areas under the curves are proportional to the variances. (b) Probability distribution of length scales from the Vindeby site at heights of 48 m. Length scales were derived by the half variance method.;Figure 8. (a) Model spectra of the streamwise velocity component 50 m a.g.l. in flat terrain for neutral (L infinite), stable (L  30 m) and unstable (L  30 m) conditions, where L is the MoninObukhov length 34, 35, 36. The areas under the curves are proportional to the variances. (b) Probability distribution of length scales from the Vindeby site at heights of 48 m. Length scales were derived by the half variance method.wind speeds, but above 3040 m and for high wind speeds 38 the length scale approaches a constant value, typically 5001500 m. Terrain inhomogeneities may locally give rise to very large changes in the spec tra. In flow over hills, the pressure field perturbations induced on the flow by the presence of the hill lead to an (almost) instantaneous redistribution of energy from the streamwise component of the wind to the vertical component by rapid distor tion 39, see Fig. 9. In situations with changing roughness, the turbulence changes gradually downstream, first at small scales (high frequencies), and later also at larger scales. Because it can take considerable amounts of time (tens of minutes to hours) to change the large, energycontaining eddies, the turbulence of the flow remembers the upstream conditions far downstream 40. The general effect of inhomogeneous terrain is to increase turbulence, typically at length scales compa rable in size to the characteristic terrain features 41. In this way, the shape of the spectrum approaches that of the unstable spectrum in Fig. 8(a), where typical length scales of the energycontaining range are of the order of several kilometers. Neutral conditions are very rare events, typically occurring only as transitions between stable and unstable conditions. However, nearneutral conditions occur also during overcast skies and moderate to high wind speeds. This variation in stability means that at a particular site, a wide range of dominating length scales are seen from tens of meters to several kilometers, the distribution of which de pends very much on the local stability climatology. The probability distribution of length scales at a coastal site is shown in Fig. 8(b). Here, the length scale was defined as the scale for which half of the variance of the streamwise component is distributed on larger scales and the other half on smaller scales. This length scale does not coincide exactly with the peak of the power spectrum  the difference being  10 for a typical spectrum  but the length scale defined in this way is much easier to measure reliably. In Fig. 8(b), the most common length scale is 500600 m, but the distribution is skewed (almost symmetric in the logarith mic representation) and the average length scale is about 1000 m. Length scale distributions are presented also for other heights in 33 from 15 m and above these are very similar (for the 7m level the scales were found to be significantly smaller) with a slight tendency towards smaller scales closer to land. Also, it has been observed at the offshore location, 2 km from the coast, that the scales are