Figure 13. (a) Tenminute averaged wind speeds at Glyvursnes and Nor dradalsskard during a storm on the Faroe Islands, 2122 December 1988. Two second gust speeds (open circles) are also shown for the latter station. Measure ments were taken 10 m a.g.l. The station most exposed to the storm ceased mea suring a few minutes after 0045 on the 22nd, when the lattice tower collapsed. (b) Monthly extreme wind speeds at Glyvursnes, irrespective of direction. P is given by P  m(N 1) where N is the size of the sample and m is an ordering number of the ranked events. The straight line is fitted disregarding the 2122 December event.;Figure 13. (a) Tenminute averaged wind speeds at Glyvursnes and Nor dradalsskard during a storm on the Faroe Islands, 2122 December 1988. Two second gust speeds (open circles) are also shown for the latter station. Measure ments were taken 10 m a.g.l. The station most exposed to the storm ceased mea suring a few minutes after 0045 on the 22nd, when the lattice tower collapsed. (b) Monthly extreme wind speeds at Glyvursnes, irrespective of direction. P is given by P  m(N 1) where N is the size of the sample and m is an ordering number of the ranked events. The straight line is fitted disregarding the 2122 December event.the local topography. The largest 10min mean wind speed at 10 m at the first station was 58.1 m s1 and the lattice tower carrying the instrumentation collapsed when the 2sec gust value reached 76.7 m s1. The highest 10min value at the second station was 39.2 m s1. The data series for the latter station covering 7 years is used for the extreme value analysis. First, the standard procedure 57 is followed by plotting ranked extreme events versus the double logarithm of their relevant probabilities and fitting a straight line. This gives the speed which on the average is exceeded once in the period T considered. The result is given in Fig. 13(b). The double exponential form of the accumulated probability function implies that for large (rare) events, the probability density function itself is nearly an exponential of the form p(u)  exp(u). For such processes it can be shown that the average number of exceedances  per unit time of a certain speed u is proportional to p(u) 50. This can be used to extrapolate the above return period to another return period T. Thus, for one exceedance on the average, T is constant, i.e. T1eu1  T2eu2, or;the local topography. The largest 10min mean wind speed at 10 m at the first station was 58.1 m s1 and the lattice tower carrying the instrumentation collapsed when the 2sec gust value reached 76.7 m s1. The highest 10min value at the second station was 39.2 m s1. The data series for the latter station covering 7 years is used for the extreme value analysis. First, the standard procedure 57 is followed by plotting ranked extreme events versus the double logarithm of their relevant probabilities and fitting a straight line. This gives the speed which on the average is exceeded once in the period T considered. The result is given in Fig. 13(b). The double exponential form of the accumulated probability function implies that for large (rare) events, the probability density function itself is nearly an exponential of the form p(u)  exp(u). For such processes it can be shown that the average number of exceedances  per unit time of a certain speed u is proportional to p(u) 50. This can be used to extrapolate the above return period to another return period T. Thus, for one exceedance on the average, T is constant, i.e. T1eu1  T2eu2, oru2  u1   ln T2;T1 (7)where  is the slope of the regression line in the ranking plot. Approximately the same results are obtained when other common statistical methods, e.g. selecting the events as individual storms, are used. The result is also rather insensitive to whether the analysis is carried out on the wind speed itself or the wind pressure. Finally, the estimated extreme value which is valid for conditions of 10 m above fairly open terrain, can be extrapolated to other topographical conditions and other heights at the island by applying the wind atlas method 58. Figure 13(b) depicts a problem of the analysis the storm event from Fig. 13(a) is completely off the regression line. If we use the parameters of this, calculated without the data from 22 October 1988, we obtain an average return period of approximately 300 years. However, this is an irrelevant and useless prediction.