26 RisI1206(EN)a comprehensive wind tunnel investigation 67, 68, 69, 70. The transducer shadow effect is a particularly simple case of flow distortion and a wellknown source of error in sonics with horizontal sound paths 27. Less well known are the errors associated with inaccuracies in probe head geometry 70 and the temperature sensitivity of the sound transducers 70. Finally, specific details in the design of a given probe head may give rise to wind speeddependent errors 68. Wind tunnel investigations and atmospheric sonic intercomparisons carried out at NCAR and Ris 70 suggest that the accuracy and reliability of common offtheshelf sonic systems are approaching those of a fastresponding, calibrated cup anemometer. However, the cup anemometer should still be employed for accurate determinations of the mean wind speed. For measurements of the threedimensional structure of atmospheric turbulence the sonic anemometer seems to be the instrument of choice.;The wind close to the earths surface is strongly influenced by the nature of the terrain surface, the detailed description of which is called topography. The inter action between the wind and the surface takes places on a broad range of length scales, and much effort in boundarylayer meteorology has been devoted to the separation of this range of scales into a number of characteristic domains which can be systematically described, parameterized andor modelled. For the purpose of wind power meteorology, which is primarily concerned with the wind flow from 10 to 200 meters above the ground, the effects of the topography can be divided into three typical categories 7;Roughness The collective effect of the terrain surface and its roughness elements, leading to an overall retardation of the wind near the ground, is referred to as the roughness of the terrain. The point of interest must be far away from the individual roughness elements, and the height usually much larger than the height of these.;Obstacles Close to an obstacle, such as a building or shelter belt, the wind is strongly influenced by the presence of the obstacle which may reduce the wind speed considerably. To be of any consequence, the point of interest must be close to the individual obstacle, and the height comparable to the height of the obstacle.;Orography When the typical scale of the terrain features becomes much larger than the height of the point of interest, they act as orographic elements to the wind. Near the summit or the crest of hills, cliffs, ridges and escarpments, the wind will accelerate while near the foot and in valleys it will decelerate.;This division of the topography  simple as it may seem  has proven extremely useful in wind power meteorology 7 and it is invoked routinely 9 to describe the complexity of the real world. Some terrain characteristics and concepts used for the description and analysis of topography are introduced below.