Figure 14. (a) Ratio of wind speeds measured by two cup anemometers versus wind direction. The cups are mounted on opposite sides of a triangular lattice tower with side length 1.2 m the boom lengths are 2.5 m. (b) Ratio of wind speeds measured upwind of a lattice tower  by two boommounted cup anemometers  to an undisturbed reference speed versus wind direction. The distance between the cup rotors and the boom is 5.5 boom diameters.;Figure 14. (a) Ratio of wind speeds measured by two cup anemometers versus wind direction. The cups are mounted on opposite sides of a triangular lattice tower with side length 1.2 m the boom lengths are 2.5 m. (b) Ratio of wind speeds measured upwind of a lattice tower  by two boommounted cup anemometers  to an undisturbed reference speed versus wind direction. The distance between the cup rotors and the boom is 5.5 boom diameters.be smaller in the atmosphere 65 than in the wind tunnel. However, both types of studies suggest that boommounted cup anemometers should generally be mount ed on vertical extension poles with a distance between the rotor plane and the boom of at least about 12 boom diameters. The adverse effects of the tower and mounting arrangements can (and should) be avoided by mounting one anemometer on a slender pole, about three or more tower diameters above the top of the tower  without lightning conductors or antennas. This is particularly important if only one anemometer position is available. The improper siting of a wellcalibrated and properly mounted anemometer can easily render the measurements useless. Hence, if wind measurements are not made at the exact point of interest, e.g. at hub height at the location of a wind turbine, some effort should go into siting of the anemometer. The effects of topography on a number of possible sites may be estimated using numerical models, e.g. the WAsP models 7, 9. In order to minimize subsequent modelling uncertainties, the anemometer site should resemble as closely as possible the sites that are to be investigated (predicted), i.e. with respect to elevation, exposure, ruggedness, land use, and height above ground. The sonic anemometer measures the wind speed from the flight times, t1 and t2, of ultrasonic sound pulses traveling in opposite directions across a fixed sound path 27. It has no moving parts and therefore none of the response problems associated with cup anemometers. By the same token, it presumably requires very little maintenance. The wind speed measured along a sound path, S, is a function of the path length and the two travel times only S  (2)(1t1 1t2) i.e. independent of atmospheric conditions like pressure, air temperature, humidity, etc. Lack of easeofoperation, longterm instability and high cost have been major obstacles to the application of sonic anemometers in wind energy studies. How ever, several sonic systems are now fairly easy to operate and can provide data over extended periods of time. Furthermore, a number of systems have become available at a cost comparable to the total cost of a cup anemometer, wind vane and temperature sensor (including booms, clamps, cabling, radiation screen etc.). The major concern, inherent in sonic anemometry, is the fact that the probe head itself distorts the flow  the effect of which can only be evaluated in detail by