RisI1206(EN) 23year period, to determine the wind climate at about 190 European meteorological stations. In addition, 29 radiosonde stations were used to find the geostrophic wind climate at those locations. Using a set of physical models, the wind climates were subsequently referenced to a common set of standard topographical conditions, i.e. they were expressed as Weibull A and kparameters for five heights and twelve 30degree sectors over four different values of surface roughness. Wind resource estimates for other sites can then be obtained invoking the same set of models to introduce the sitespecific topography of these sites. The verification of the methodology was done in the same way, i.e. by intercomparison of the reference stations. Most routine meteorological observations are presumably performed according to common (WMO) standards, but it should be borne in mind that wind ener gy was never the primary concern of these observational networks. Consequently, the selection and analysis of such data must be done very carefully. Evidently, the station data must cover the climatic area and time period of interest, but the anemometer should also be well exposed and an accurate history and description of anemometric conditions should be available. Timeseries data should be preferred as the initial data source since this allows for detection of errors in the data which may be undetectable in data summaries. The data series and derived statistics should be inspected carefully to detect deficiencies in the data abnormally high wind speeds (spikes), patterns in the data related to data transformation (e.g. from knots to m s1) or data transmission (truncation), representativity (dailyyearly), missing observations etc. The accuracy of the wind measurements should prefer ably also be evaluated, at least by visual inspection of the current anemometer setup.;Onsite wind measurements are often an important input to the prediction of the power production of a single wind turbine or wind farm (siting), or for establishing the power curve of a wind turbine. The accuracy of these measurements is crucial because the energy density and wind turbine power output are proportional to the cube of the mean wind speed. Furthermore, the instruments used must be robust and reliably accumulate data over extended periods of unattended operation. Most onsite (and routine) wind measurements are carried out using simple mechanical devices like the traditional cup anemometer. The behaviour of these instruments is fairly well understood and the sources of error well known  but, alas, often neglected. Solidstate wind sensors (e.g. sonics) have until recently not been used extensively for wind energy purposes, mainly because of their high cost. Today, however, it has become feasible in largescale projects  and certainly at wind turbine test centers  to deploy sonic anemometers. These have a number of advantages over mechanical anemometers and further provide measurements of turbulence, air temperature and atmospheric stability. However, they also intro duce new sources of error which are less well known and the overall accuracy of sonic anemometry still needs to be investigated. In general, the sources of error in anemometry include the effects of the tower, boom and other mounting arrangements, the anemometer design and its response to the turbulent characteristics of the flow and the calibration procedure. Evi dently, proper maintenance of the anemometer is also important. In some cases, special problems arise due to icing of the sensor or deterioration of the mechanical parts of the anemometer at sites close to the sea. An overview of some important aspects of anemometry is given in Tab. 1. The design considerations of cup anemometers are beyond the scope of this paper. A modern, sturdy, lightweight, fastresponding cup anemometer should