Figure 18. Schematic presentation of the KAMMWAsP approach to calculate the local wind climate.;The simulations are processed in a similar way as the measurements, i.e. the simulated winds are transformed to a number of standard roughnesses and s tandard heights using the geostrophic drag law. Then, Weibull distributions are fitted to the transformed wind speeds to construct the socalled wind atlas data sets which, in turn, constitute the input for WAsP. The wind atlas files represent the generalized regional wind climate and are established for each grid point of KAMM. The local wind climate can now be determined using WAsP together with the wind atlas data from the nearest grid point. This approach has been used to model the wind climate of Ireland 88, 89. Figure 19 shows the simulated wind energy density 50 m above a flat surface with roughness length z0  3 cm calculated by the KAMM model. The data shown in Fig. 19 can be used to predict the yearly power production of a wind turbine using WAsP. In Fig. 20, such production estimates are com pared to power production estimates obtained directly from measurements at 18 sites in Ireland  where the vertical extrapolation of these measurements to hub height was carried out using WAsP. The agreement is good, except for the very low productions, where the simplified modelling of stability effects leads to large differences.;The wind is highly variable and difficult to predict (forecast). This causes problems for the electrical utility dispatchers since they have to schedule the operation of conventional power plants not knowing the production from the wind farms. If the penetration level (fraction of the total power delivered by wind turbines) is low this constitutes a minor problem and wind energy can be considered a negative consumer. In areas with high penetration levels, however, addressing the problem in this way would cause an unnecessary use of fossil fuels, leading to economic losses and pollution of the atmosphere. As an example of an area with high penetration, the Jutlandic and the Funen part of Denmark may have up to 40 of the electricity produced by wind farms at certain times. To avoid this waste of fossil fuel, the wind resource has to be predicted. This can be done using numerical weather prediction (NWP) models of the general at mospheric circulation. These models predict the overall motion of the atmosphere, e.g. lowpressure systems. To predict the winds in a specific wind farm, it is nec