  A 2  B2 (3)where G is the geostrophic wind, f the Coriolis parameter, and A and B are dimensionless functions of stability (for neutral conditions, A  1.8, B  4.5). If the geostrophic wind is known, it is quite simple to calculate u for a given z0 and use Eq. (2) for the calculation of the wind speed at a certain height. This is basically the double vertical extrapolation method described in the previous section. In sloping terrain and over hills, certain layers of the flow accelerate, leading to different shapes of the wind profiles. The shear in local height ranges may then be much higher than that implied by Eq. (2), see Fig. 7(a). Indepth treatment of flow in changing terrain can be found in 27, and simple engineering approaches in 28 and 24.;Figure 7. (a) Normalized wind profiles observed upwind, at the crest, and at the foot downwind of a twodimensional ridge 27. (b) Wind profiles upwind and 5.3 rotor diameters downwind of an operating wind turbine 26. Seventeen timeseries of 30minute duration, with hubheight wind speeds in the range from 6 to 8 m s1;Figure 7. (a) Normalized wind profiles observed upwind, at the crest, and at the foot downwind of a twodimensional ridge 27. (b) Wind profiles upwind and 5.3 rotor diameters downwind of an operating wind turbine 26. Seventeen timeseries of 30minute duration, with hubheight wind speeds in the range from 6 to 8 m s1and nearneutral conditions, were selected for calculation of this average wind profile.;In the wake of an operating wind turbine, the mean flow speed decreases down stream of the rotor, giving rise to the formation of strong shear layers near the edges of the wake, especially near the top of the wake. Initially, the wake diameter is close to the rotor diameter, but as the flow moves away from the rotor, turbulent mixing gradually increases the wake diameter and decreases the velocity deficit. At a distance of about 10 rotor diameters downstream, the flow has almost recov ered and the wind profile is close to the upstream profile. An example of the wind profile five rotor diameters downstream of a wind turbine is shown in Fig. 7(b), see also Fig. 10.