Figure 12. (a) Gust model calculations plotted as a function of length scale. Solid line is the result from a simulated timeseries with 100 hours of simulated turbu lence at each length scale. The dashed line was calculated using Kaimal spectra and Eq. (6). (b) Measured gust as a function of wind speed, using 10minute time series approx. 1 second averaging time. Measurements at 10, 22, 36 and 51 m a.g.l. Typical standard deviations around mean values, 0.40.5, above 5 m s1.;The proper design of a wind turbine for a specific wind climate must take into account the number of times, or the probability, that large loads and resulting large responses may occur over the lifetime of the turbine. As for other engineering applications, it is useful to use the return period T, which is the average time interval between excursions beyond a certain load. The largest loads are caused by the strong winds which occur in connection with severe weather phenomena. Most severe are undoubtedly tornadoes where it is claimed that wind speeds up to 100 m s1 occur. A tornado is very localized with a horizontal extent of typically 500 m and a life time of tens of minutes. It is therefore almost impossible to estimate the probability that a specific location be hit by a tornado. However, it is well known that tornadoes are more prevalent in North America than in other places of the earth about half of the worlds tornadoes occur here and most of the other half occur in about 20 other countries. Very violent winds are also encountered in connection with the about 80 largescale, severe storms  tropical cyclones, hurricanes and typhoons  that occur each year. The polar front in the northern latitudes is the cause of cyclones of large extent, thousand kilometers and with winds occasionally reaching the wind speeds of hurricanes and perhaps even tornadoes. Good instrumental records are a necessary requirement for determining ex ceedance statistics. So are adequate statistical methods to determine the appro priate statistics and methods by which the statistics can be transformed from the location of the measurements to other locations. In engineering literature, extreme value statistics is often expressed as the average return period  typically 50 years  for a 10min average wind speed of a certain (large) magnitude. Below, we il lustrate a procedure for obtaining these statistics 56 by means of data from the Faroe Islands. The data series are all too short, but the analysis shows the princi ple as well as possible problems with the method. Data were measured on several islands in order to study the wind conditions at a range of typical topographical sites. The measurements during a severe storm are shown on Fig. 13(a) for the two islands of Nordradalsskard and Glyvursnes. The first station is situated in a saddle point 267 m a.s.l. and is strongly affected by the orography, whereas the other station is considered not to be influenced by