An overview of the global wind climate is illustrated in Fig. 3, where the mean windenergy flux at 850 hPa ( 1500 m a.s.l.) is shown. The picture is a familiar one, displaying clearly the roaring forties on the Southern Hemisphere and the extratropical cyclonic activity over the Northern Atlantic and the Northern Pacific. Furthermore, the southwest monsoon can be seen, with the Somali Jet standing out. Evidently, this is a very coarse picture of the wind regimes of the World it does not display local wind systems on scales less than a few hundred kilometers and largerscale systems with strong yearly variations are suppressed, too. For a detailed description of the global climate, see 22, 23. However, as a starting point for regional wind resource estimation world wide, the database used for the map is extremely useful in combination with adequate meteorological models. The wind climatological description and classification of a particular location is not a simple matter. Many different types of wind statistics could be considered for a description of wind climates local or regional. For the European Wind Atlas a graphical representation called the wind climatological fingerprint was developed 7. Experience has shown that the collective information in the various statistics usually provides a good representation of the wind climate. Figure 4 elucidates the usefulness of parts of the fingerprint characterization three widely different wind climates from the arctic, the Westerlies, and the trade winds are shown. The dramatic differences between these climates are obvious, especially for the yearly and the daily variations.;Figure 4. (a) Yearly and (b) daily variations of the mean wind speed for three different wind climates. (c) Frequency distributions of the wind speed at the same three locations.;Variability is an intrinsic feature of climate because the weather changes from year to year and between consecutive decades. The data which form the basis of any wind resource study cover a limited period of time, which in many cases is about ten years. The question therefore arises to what extent is that period representative for the longerterm climate and, more importantly, how large a deviation must be expected in future decades? A study of climatic variability in northern Europe 7 shows that variations in wind energy of up to 30 can be expected from one decade to another, see Fig. 5. In another study 2 it was found from an analysis of the expected power output for a 45m high wind turbine over a 22year period that the interannual variation in power corresponds to a mean relative standard deviation of approximately 13. For the proper assessment of the economics of wind power utilization, such variability must obviously be borne in mind. In comparison with other important factors such as rates of interest and prices of other fuels, the uncertainty in the wind resource is not large over the lifetime of a wind turbine of, say 20 years. Based