Figure 9. Wavenumber spectra of the velocity components upstream and at the crest of a hill. Full line streamwise, dashed line lateral, dotted line vertical. Note the redistribution of energy from the streamwise component to the vertical component by rapid distortion.;Figure 9. Wavenumber spectra of the velocity components upstream and at the crest of a hill. Full line streamwise, dashed line lateral, dotted line vertical. Note the redistribution of energy from the streamwise component to the vertical component by rapid distortion.smaller for offshore flow and larger for onshore flow. The spectral coherence, Coh(f), is a useful measure of the normalized spectral distribution of spatial correlations. Note however that the integral of ;S1(f)S2(f) (4)where Q12 is the quadrature spectrum, Co12 the cospectrum and S1 and S2 the power spectra measured at the physically separated positions 1 and 2. The coher ence is an important quantity when translating Eulerian spectra into spectra in a rotating frame of reference, such as that seen at a fixed position on a rotating wind turbine blade 42, 43. It is quite difficult to measure coherences with suffi cient statistical significance and consequently there is a lot of scatter in measured values. Traditionally, very simple exponential models have been used to describe the coherence functions 44, for coherences along the wind and perpendicular to the mean wind, in the lateral and in the vertical. The coherence for separations perpendicular to the mean wind in neutral conditions, is described well by the following model, even in wake situations 45; (5)where s is the separation and ai depend on the velocity component and the di rection of separation (vertical or lateral). For the ucomponent ai  1211zzavg for vertical separation and ai  12  11yz for lateral separation  where z is the height difference, zavg the average of the two heights, and y the lateral separation at the same height z. In the literature, several other models of varying degrees of sophistication can be found 46. The coherences also depend on stability the decay constant ai increases sig nificantly in stable conditions, and decreases slowly with increasing instability. In strongly stable conditions, the picture is somewhat blurred by the fact that the lowintensity, smallscale turbulent fluctuations are masked by the presence of slow, largescale, highly coherent, twodimensional structures. Except for mi nor differences in average stability (slightly more stable over the sea) there is no