Initial conditions are quite similar and initial wind and temperature fields have to be specified. Often, they are derived from largerscale fields which reflect the largerscale climatology. One important point for simulations with daily cycles of insolation is the specification of the initial time and date of the simulation. This is clearly the case for weather prediction. However, for climatological studies it is not obvious which date to choose and no objective method is known at present.  Observations enter as both boundary and initial conditions through the climatology. The main largescale parameters influencing the surface wind in midlatitudes are the geostrophic wind and the stratification of the atmosphere. Temperature differences between land and sea can also be important, especially in coastal re gions. The main surface parameters are surface elevation and roughness length, and soil or sea surface temperature.;The following list contains different classifications of models. Loosely, one could say that for most of the criteria complexity increases from left to right.;The following list contains different classifications of models. Loosely, one could say that for most of the criteria complexity increases from left to right.dynamics kinematic (massconsistent), hydrostatic, nonhydrostatic;In reality, the classification is more complex. As an example, WAsP is a linear model however, the interaction of its stability model and the roughness change model is nonlinear. Also, its hillflow model assumes neutral stratification, but the mean wind field is for nonneutral stratification.;In the following we discuss briefly some limitations and assumptions of the different models which influence their application. Massconsistent models contain no dynamic equations, they only require the flow field to be divergence free. Therefore, they require many observations in order to model the flow field correctly 82, 83. They should not be used if only one observation point is available. In hydrostatic models the equation for vertical momentum is substituted by hydrostatic equilibrium. They should only be used to model the regional wind climate, i.e. resolved scales greater than  10 km. The hydrostatic assumption will lead to wrong phases of the speedup above small mountains and hills. Instead of being at the summit as observed, the maximum speedup is predicted at the leeside of the hill. Linear models calculate deviations, u, from a base or reference state, U. Theo retically, they should work only for small perturbations, say uU  0.2. However, in practice uU up to about 0.5 still works well. They can not calculate detached flow, which occur in steep terrain with slopes greater than approximately 0.3 80.