RisI1206(EN) 7effect on the wind from topographical features. This was achieved by combin ing contemporary theories with experimental investigations. The Atlas contains a method for calculating the effect of a change of roughness class, the socalled roughness change model, and a model for calculating the speedup which occurs when the flow passes over a hill, the socalled hill model. Further, it was necessary to construct a model for the effect of sheltering obstacles in the terrain, such as houses and shelter belts, the socalled shelter model. In 1981, the European Commission launched its first wind energy research pro gram. In the plans was the creation of a European wind atlas, based on the Dan ish Wind Atlas methodology for nonmountainous terrain and an application of a massconsistent model for mountainous terrain. An assembled working group immediately deemed this approach impossible. Not only was the necessary collec tion of pressure data prohibitively immense, but so were also the requirements for computer power. Furthermore, the influence on the pressure measurements from the actual heights of the synoptic stations above mean sea level could introduce so large errors in the calculation of the geostrophic wind that the resulting statistics most likely would be useless. The use of a massconsistent model for the moun tainous areas had the problem that because the physics is extremely simplified  basically only the continuity equation  it requires a network of measurements with an unrealistic density. Therefore a methodology was established in which the first step was to give a systematic description of the various types of landscapes in Europe and the next to provide methods and data to be used in each landscape type. Five distinct landscape types were recognized and the topography and wind climatology were described. For the creation of the European Wind Atlas the s trategy was to adapt parts of the methodology from the Danish Wind Atlas for the relatively simple landscapes, and for the complex landscapes to collect as many highquality wind records as possible and develop a method to describe and classify the stations in a unified way. As mentioned above, the Danish method could not be used straightforwardly because of the insurmountable difficulties in the pressure analysis. Instead, another method was put forward the double vertical and horizontal extrapolation method. The idea behind this is quite simple if we have measured the wind speed at a height of 10 meters at one station and we are able to estimate the distribution of the roughness length around the station, then we can find the friction velocity from the logarithmic profile and apply this in the geostrophic drag law to calculate the geostrophic wind. Having determined the geostrophic wind this way, we can proceed as in the Danish Wind Atlas method to calculate the Weibull statistics. And these statistics can then be used to estimate the wind statistics at specific locations up to 200 m a.g.l. The procedure is illustrated in Fig 2. However, with the introduction of the double extrapolation method, the as sumption about the uncomplicated neutral atmosphere had to be relaxed. This is so, because the climate of the surface heat flux is an important parameter for the vertical extrapolation of the wind distribution with height. Even at moderate wind speeds, deviations from the logarithmic profile occur when the height ex ceeds a few tens of meters. Deviations are caused by the effect of buoyancy forces in the turbulence dynamics the surface roughness is no longer the only relevant surface characteristic, but has to be supplemented by parameters describing the surface heat flux. With cooling at night, turbulence is lessened causing the wind profile to increase more rapidly with height conversely, daytime heating causes increased turbulence and a wind profile more constant with height. In order to take into account the effects of the varying surface heat flux without the need to model each individual wind profile, a simplified procedure was adopted which only requires the climatological average and rootmeansquare of the surface heat flux. This procedure introduces the degree of contamination by stability effects