The discipline Wind Power Meteorology has evolved together with the commercial evolution of the wind turbine and the largescale utilization of wind for electric ity generation. From the early seventies, groups worldwide began to work with meteorological and climatological questions related to wind energy and numerous publications can be found in the literature. The national wind energy programs, which were initiated in a number of countries in the seventies, typically includ ed national wind resource surveys. Among these, probably the best known are the Wind Energy Resource Atlas of the United States by Pacific Northwest Lab oratory 1 and the Wind Atlas for Denmark by Ris National Laboratory 2, both published in 1980. In addition to these atlases a number of socalled siting handbooks were produced most notably in the USA (1977) 3 and (1980) 4, in Canada (1984) 5, and in the Netherlands (1986) 6. The Danish Wind Atlas and later the European Wind Atlas (1989) 7 serve both purposes, as wind resource atlas and siting handbook. During the 1980s wind turbine development increased dramatically, and large demonstration wind turbines were erected and tested, but often dismantled af ter a few years of operation due to unsuccessful design. In the meantime, the small and privately produced turbines went on growing larger and more reliable and  thanks to various political initiatives  a sometimes turbulent market was created. Best known is the growth of the European and American wind turbine industry the eruption of the Californian market and the subsequent decline lead ing to multiple bankruptcies for the industry. Following this incidence a slower, but consolidate growth of the European market developed the wind energy com munity had learned its lesson from the Californian adventure. The importance of an accurate knowledge of the overall wind resource and reliable methods for the siting of wind turbines had become increasingly clear. Through the 1990s the world has seen a continuous growth in the application of wind energy. The competition has become fierce, not only between specific brands of turbines, but also between projects demanding large investments. Which project to select and on what grounds? Usually, economy and, consequently, the expecta tion to the power production during the lifetime of the wind turbine are crucial parameters. Here, the application of wind power meteorology plays an ever increas ing important role. It is interesting to note that this discipline has evolved over the last 20 years or more, turning a relatively free academic discipline into hard core research and development under the pressure from the wind energy community  with a strong and almost unrealistic demand for accurate and efficient methods. Many of the early methods put forward did not survive. The methods that are left are in return extensively used. With the wisdom of hindsight it is straightforward to explain what happened, why it happened and finally in what direction the de velopment must go. The answer lies in the physics the more relevant physics that can be implemented in the methods, the more general and realistic the models and the more accurate and reliable the results. In the following, we will go through simple physical arguments in support of this allegation.