6 RisI1206(EN)geostrophic wind over Denmark. This was then used to calculate timeseries of the surface wind at heights between 10 and 200 meters, for four values of the roughness length. Each value of the roughness length was assigned to a characteristic type of terrain, named a roughness class. Initially, the aim of the project was to produce maps over Denmark of the wind resources. Early in the project it became clear, that in order for such maps to make any sense they would have to be produced with an  at that time  impossible high resolution. The reason for this is the dramatic variation of the wind conditions which, due to the extreme dependence of the wind speed on the topographical features, can be experienced near the surface over short distances. Instead of producing maps, a method which could be used to produce maps of high resolution at particular locations was developed. More specifically, the method, which later became known as the Wind Atlas Method, was created such that a user, having specified the roughness classes in each of eight direction sectors (N, NE, . . . , NW), could use the tables and graphs in the Atlas to calculate the distribution function of the wind at the desired height. This was before the advent of the PC. One of the assumptions used in the development of the wind atlas method was that the distribution of wind speeds is well approximated by the Weibull distribution function. Several investigations before the Atlas had hinted at this and the general experience today is that wellmeasured data at locations with moderate to high winds almost always can be approximated by the Weibull function. The timeseries of the geostrophic wind calculated from the pressure data had a near perfect Weibull distribution as shown in Fig. 1(a). The distribution functions of the surface wind speed timeseries, calculated as described above, were then fitted with the Weibull distribution and the resulting two parameters describing the distribution, the scale parameter A and shape parameter k, were plotted for five heights, four roughness classes and eight direction sectors. A typical graph is shown in Fig. 1(b). More than 6000 wind turbines operating in Denmark and Germany have been sited using this method, hence there is an immense amount of experience behind its use.;Figure 1. (a) The distribution of the geostrophic wind over Denmark 2. (b) Weibull A and kparameters as functions of height over roughness class 2 2. The values shown at 1000 m correspond to the geostrophic wind.;In the construction of the Danish Wind Atlas it was necessary to move a step away from the idealized world. It was essential to include the effects of changes from one roughness class to another and from height variations in the terrain. In other words, it was inevitable to construct models which, on the basis of sim ple information extracted from standard topographical maps, could calculate the