Figure 17. (a) WAsP wind speed prediction error versus the difference in extent of steep slopes (RIX values) between the predicted and the reference site 79, 81. Data from five Portuguese and two French sites are shown. (b) WAsP wind speed prediction error versus the extent of steep slopes (RIX value) of the most rugged of the predictor (reference) and predicted site 81. Same data as (a).;As the wind is a very local characteristic, influenced by the surrounding hills and changes of roughness, one needs methods of interpolation for wind measurements. In addition, measurements are costly to carry out, and it takes a long time to obtain climatological estimates. Therefore, models are needed for the interpolation between measurements and for the prediction of the wind climate. By prediction we do not mean the prediction of weather or climatic variability, but the calculation of the wind climate at a specific site without measurements at that site. A meteorological model is in this context any model which allows one to calcu late wind fields in the atmosphere. Models range from global, numerical weather prediction models (NWP) to models for flow over small hills or roughness changes. The latter contain no humidity processes, and often not even a temperature equa tion. Nevertheless, many of these are very useful for the calculation of the local wind field. Global NWP models have too coarse a resolution for detailed mapping of the wind resource. Therefore, the emphasis here is on mesoscale and smaller scale models.;A full NWP model needs input data on the wind, temperature, and humidity fields in the atmosphere and also in the soil. However, for wind energy applications one often wants to have only climatological wind values without the need for exact daily forecasts. In this case, the following data at the model boundaries are the most important; The orography and roughness of the terrain. The roughness length can be derived from a specification of the landuse and vegetation coverage.