The only conclusion we can draw is that this singular event must belong to a different phenomenon than the rest of the extreme value ensemble. We do not have a solution to such problems except to state that in order to get reliable extreme value statistics such as 50year return periods, only long timeseries of well measured data from a homogeneous statistical ensemble might suffice.;Different sources of wind data are available and can be employed for different purposes in wind energy studies  each type of data providing quite different levels of detail and accuracy. The overall distribution and magnitude of the wind resource on a global scale, the detailed mapping of the wind power potential on a national or regional scale, and the very detailed estimation of the actual power production by a wind turbine or wind farm, represent three very different scales within the broad range of applications in wind power meteorology.;Useful sources of climatological data on a global scale are the reanalysis projects carried out by the National Centers for Environmental Prediction and National Center for Atmospheric Research, NCEPNCAR 59, by the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting, ECMWF 60, or by NASA 61. The projects objective is to produce homogeneous data sets covering a decade or more of weather analysis with the same data assimilation systems. This means that data from synoptic weather stations, radiosondes, pilot balloons, aircraft, ships, buoys, and satellites are collected, controlled, gridded and prepared for initialization of a global numerical weather prediction model. The projects were initiated mainly to find lowfrequency variabilities of the at mosphere. In routine weather analysis apparent (climatic) trends and jumps may appear when a new analysis scheme or forecast model is introduced. This unreal istic variability can be eliminated by using one stateoftheart data assimilation system. In addition, data which were not available during operational weather forecasting can be included. The modern assimilation scheme plus the added in put data should result in better analyses than the previous routine analysis. The reanalysis data allow a broad overview of the global wind climate 62 and a first estimate in regions of poor observational coverage. A convenient property for the user of these data sets is their completeness. After the reanalysis there are no missing values in the data.;For national and regional wind resource assessment, the routine observations car ried out by the meteorological and other public services may be used, either as the primary data source or for verification purposes. In the Danish Wind Atlas 2, for example, the geostrophic wind climate was determined from longterm pressure measurements at about 55 synoptic stations in and around Denmark ( 43 000 km2). The geostrophic wind climate was then used to estimate the wind distri butions at a given height over a specified terrain, by means of the geostrophic drag law 62. The verification of the atlas was performed by estimating the wind climates of 12 specific sites in Denmark where longterm wind measurements had been carried out. The European Wind Atlas 7, covering a land area of about 2.25 mio. km2, employed surface observations of wind speed and direction, measured over a 10