Figure 16. Different landscape types 7 flat (upper left) and hilly (upper right) terrain is generally within the performance limits of linearized flow models. As the terrain gets steeper and more complex (lower left) the modelling uncertainties become larger and presentday engineering models must be applied with utmost care. The flow in mountains cut by deep valleys (lower right) may be investigated using more advanced flow models andor by measurements. (S. Rasmussen del.);Figure 16. Different landscape types 7 flat (upper left) and hilly (upper right) terrain is generally within the performance limits of linearized flow models. As the terrain gets steeper and more complex (lower left) the modelling uncertainties become larger and presentday engineering models must be applied with utmost care. The flow in mountains cut by deep valleys (lower right) may be investigated using more advanced flow models andor by measurements. (S. Rasmussen del.)left) about 10 or less, mountainous (lower right) from about 10 to 50 or more. The ruggedness index has also been used to develop an orographic performance indicator for WAsPpredictions in complex terrain 79, 81  where the indicator is defined as the difference in the percentage fractions (RIX) between the predict ed and the reference site. This indicator may provide the sign and approximate magnitude of the prediction error for situations where one or both of the sites are situated in terrain well outside the recommended operational envelope, see Fig. 17. The systematic trend in Fig. 17(a) indicates a strong influence of flow separa tion on the WAsP wind speed prediction error 79. If the reference and predicted sites are equally rugged, i.e. RIX small, the prediction errors are relatively s mall. If the reference site is rugged and the predicted site less rugged or flat, the overall prediction is underestimated with a significant negative error. Conversely, if the reference site is flat or less rugged than a rugged predicted site, the overall prediction is overestimated with a significant positive error. Figure 17(b) shows the same data, but arranged according to the ruggedness index of the most rugged of the two sites. This figure indicates that accurate wind speed predictions may be obtained even in mountainous terrain, provided that the difference in ruggedness indices between the reference and predicted site is small. This is obviously the case for the selfprediction at any category of site, but may also occur for neighboring sites with similar orographical settings and orientation. This represents an important application involving the prediction of wind speeds and power production at adjacent sites along a steep ridge in a wind farm.