RisI1206(EN) 9progress in Libya, Syria, Russia and elsewhere. The primary use of WAsP has been for siting of wind turbines worldwide, single or in farms. Over the decade it has been in use, it has developed into a generally accepted standard for micrositing. However, it has its wellrecognized limitation s the more complicated the situation is with respect to topography, climatology, or both, the more uncertain are the results from the calculations. Many of the procedures that constitute the method are strictly applicable only under an ide alized and limited range of conditions. The most severe problems are encountered in mountainous terrain where largescale effects render the model increasingly d eficient because of the importance of dynamics which is at present not accounted for in the model. The only way forward is to use more complete physical models. The next level consists of the socalled mesoscale models. They build on the full set of equations and are therefore  formally  capable of modelling all types of flow in complex situations. Their disadvantage lies in the difficulties encountered in prescribing the initial and boundary conditions accurately. Furthermore, they typically model an area of the order of 100100 km2 with a resolution of 510 km. To zoom in on specific locations, it is necessary to apply a highresolution model like WAsP. This line has been followed in a number of studies 19. The European Wind Atlas work was followed up by the EU Commission with a study called Measurements and modelling in complex terrain 20. The aim was to be able to calculate the available wind resources in mountainous terrain with an acceptable low uncertainty. The project encompassed model development and measurements in several mountainous regions of Europe for verification and demonstration. The result is produced by a combination of the Karlsruhe Atmospheric Mesoscale Mod el (KAMM) and WAsP. The perspectives for further progress of wind power meteorology are good the everincreasing computer power and efficiency of numerical methods allow for continuous development of the models involved, and the public availability of large databases on longterm global wind climatology and highresolution topography (orography and land use) allows for production of worldwide reliable wind atlas data and for accurate siting of wind turbines.;It is the wind in the lowest part of the atmosphere that is the most important atmospheric variable for wind power meteorology. During this century a scientific discipline named boundary layer meteorology evolved with the aim of describing the atmospheric processes in the atmospheric boundary layer. The application of this discipline has mainly been aimed at the study of air pollution, agriculture and wind engineering. Wind power meteorology has been fortunate to be able to draw from the acquired knowledge of boundary layer meteorology and until recently it is fair to say that wind turbine designers have not been able to make full use of it. However, this has now changed and the requirement for detailed and highly realistic models, for example a threedimensional quantitative description of the turbulence over a rotor plane, is a tremendous challenge to wind power meteorology. The atmospheric boundary layer is the layer of air directly above the earths surface. The layer extends to about 100 m above the ground on clear nights with low wind speeds, and up to more than two kilometers on a fine summer day. The lower part of this layer is called the surface layer and it is sometimes defined as a fixed fraction, say 10 of the boundary layer depth. For the purpose of climatology relevant to wind power utilization, we can often neglect the lowest wind speeds,