Table 1. Instrument characteristics and operational aspects that must be evaluated and taken into account in order to obtain accurate and reliable wind speed mea surements using a cup or sonic anemometer. Evidently, the operational aspects are common to all anemometers.; Transducer array characteristicsbe used. The distance constant, 0, i.e. the column of air corresponding to 63 recovery time for a step change in wind speed, should preferably be a few meters or less. An example of such an anemometer is the Ris70 cup anemometer 63, 64. The errors in cup anemometry caused by the turbulent nature of the wind have been discussed by many authors in the past a thorough review of cup anemometer dynamics was recently given by Kristensen 64. He discusses four types of biases i) ubias or overspeeding causing too high measured wind speeds because the cup anemometer responds more quickly to an increase in the wind than to a decrease of the same magnitude ii) vbias or the socalled DPerror (data processing error) which accounts for the fact that the cup anemometer is not a vector instrument, but measures the mean of the total horizontal wind speed iii) wbias and iv) stress bias which are equal to zero only if the anemometer has an ideal cosine response. The four turbulent biases are proportional to (uU)2, (vU)2, (wU)2 and uwU 2, respectively 64. The associated errors (ie with i, iii and iv) are in most cases of the order of 1 or less for a fastresponding anemometer mounted at a height of 10 m or more, but should be evaluated for the cup anemometer in question. The vbias should be taken into account when comparing cup and sonicmeasured mean wind speeds. Cup anemometers should be maintained and calibrated on a regular basis to ensure longterm accuracy in the wind speed measurements. It is usually recom mended to perform the calibration in a wind tunnel, over the range of wind speeds of interest. However, since wind tunnel work is expensive and timeconsuming  or a wind tunnel is simply not readily available  this is often not done. An alterna tive may be to intercompare cup anemometers in the atmosphere, i.e. to compare them to a reference instrument 65. The tower or mast on which the anemometer is mounted interferes with the flow and therefore introduces errors in the measured wind speed and direction. For boommounted instruments this leads to a reduction in the wind speed measured downwind of the tower, as well as a smaller reduction in the wind speed measured on the upwind side. An example of the shadow effects from a lattice tower is shown in Fig. 14(a). The width of the downwind sector angle in which the measurements are dis turbed (typically 3045) is a function of the distance between the anemometer and the tower. However, no simple relationships exist because of the great variety of mast geometries. The distance should be at least 1.5 tower diameters 27, but preferably 3 or more. Since full 360coverage is often desirable in wind energy applications, two or more anemometers must then be operated at each level. The boom and other mounting arrangements may also be the source of quite large errors in the measured mean wind speed, as shown by wind tunnel studies of the effect of various boom and clamp arrangements 66. Longterm measurements using the same type of cup anemometer, Fig. 14(b), indicate that the effects may