The second local effect which must be taken into account is the sheltering of e.g. the anemometer by nearby obstacles, such as buildings. Obstacles may be extract ed from detailed maps, but it is usually advisable to visit the site as well. The site visit, or analysis of aerial photography, is also necessary for determining the height and porosity of obstacles. The information needed for shelter modelling is basically the dimensions, position, and porosity of each obstacle. If a site is severe ly sheltered, the wakes may further be characterized by wake moment coefficients 77.;The term orography refers to the description of the height variations of the terrain, referenced to a common datum such as the mean sea level. The orography is described in most topographical maps by the height contour lines of the terrain surface. Height contours can also be specified in digital form as a vector map, which contains the (x, y)coordinates and elevation of the contour lines. Some flow models, e.g. the BZmodel of WAsP, employ digital maps directly. Other models require a Cartesian grid of terrain spot heights, a socalled digital terrain model (DTM) or raster map. Accurate raster maps can readily be derived from detailed vector maps, whereas the transformation of raster maps to vector maps results in some loss of information, depending on the actual grid cell size of the DTM. For the purpose of wind energy applications, we here divide the different landscapes into three simple classes flat, hilly and mountainous, see Fig. 16. In flat terrain and lowland regions far from mountains, the orographic effects are negligible and the roughness of the terrain is the all important characteristic for the wind flow examples of this were given above. By hilly terrain we mean terrain which is sufficiently gentle to ensure mostly attached flow, corresponding to landscapes where the slopes are less steep than about 0.3. Typical horizontal dimensions of the hills are a few kilometers or less. This type of landscape is generally within the operational envelopes of presentday linearized flow models and several benchmark data sets exist for the testing of flow models in such terrain 78. As the terrain gets steeper and more complex, and the typical horizontal dimensions of the hills increase to several kilometers, the large scale orographic features may induce strong modifications of the entire boundary layer. Linearized models may still give accurate results locally, but horizontal extrapolation of the wind climate becomes increasingly difficult. In mountainous terrain a significant fraction of the slopes are steeper than about 0.3 and flow separation occurs. In addition, the entire boundary layer is strongly influenced by the terrain. In general, the flow cannot be adequately be modelled using simple linearized models nonlinear, numerical models or measurements must be used. The somewhat indeterminate term complex terrain is often used in connection with the orographic characteristics of a landscape applied primarily for hilly and mountainous terrain consisting of a complex mixture of several hills or mountains. However, no widely accepted measure of terrain complexity exists at present. One objective measure of the steepness or ruggedness of the terrain around a site is the socalled ruggedness index or RIX 79, defined as the percentage fraction of the terrain steeper than some critical slope, say 0.3 80. This index was proposed 79 as a coarse measure of the extent of flow separation and thereby the extent to which the terrain violates the requirements of linearized flow models. Based on the limited experience available, the landscapes in Fig. 16 may be characterized by the following RIX values flat and hilly 0 (upper panel), more complex (lower