Figure 2. The wind atlas methodology used for the European Wind Atlas 9. Mete orological models are used to calculate the regional wind climatologies from the raw data. In the reverse process  the application the Wind Atlas  the wind climate at any specific site may be calculated from the regional climatology.;Figure 2. The wind atlas methodology used for the European Wind Atlas 9. Mete orological models are used to calculate the regional wind climatologies from the raw data. In the reverse process  the application the Wind Atlas  the wind climate at any specific site may be calculated from the regional climatology.to the logarithmic wind profile when conditions at different heights and surfaces are calculated. Owing to the complexity of the European landscape and the large number of stations used for the analysis, it was necessary to replace the roughness change model and the hill model by much more general computerized models, which were able to handle topographical map information in digital form. These models had to be developed, verified and applied. The result was a flowoverhill model with an expanding polar grid centered at the point of interest, enabling a very detailed description of the terrain around a specific location. Because the terrain elevations closest to the location exert the strongest influence, this is a very much desired feature. The roughness change model was initially expanded to multiple roughness changes and subsequently developed into a more general model, capable of han dling roughness areas extracted directly from topographical maps. The European Wind Atlas was published in 1989, one year after the calculational methods had been made publicly available in the PCprogram WAsP the Wind Atlas Analysis and Application Program 9. Subsequently, a number of similar studies were un dertaken in e.g. Norway (1987) 10, Jordan (1989) 11, Western Australia (1990) 12, Switzerland (1990) 13, Algeria (1991) 14, Finland (1994) 15, Sweden (1995) 16, Germany (1996) 17, Egypt (1996) 18, and similar efforts are in