36 RisI1206(EN)ish Meteorological Institute 92, the local topographical corrections are calculated by WAsP 9, and the wind farm wake effects and productions are calculated using the PARK code 93. The output and performance of the model are described briefly below.;Figure 21. Flow chart of the prediction model. MOS is short for Model Output Statistics.;For ease of electronic transfer, the model predictions are provided as HTML files, i.e. the file format used on the World Wide Web (WWW). The advantage of this is, that if the utility is large, it can run the model at its own premises and view the HTMLfiles locally. If a number of smaller utilities have joined together, they can view the pages via the Internet. The files contain the 12 forecasts (from 3 to 36 hours ahead) for the total production (if applicable) and for each wind farm. It is envisaged that the utility is provided with software (i.e. a Webbrowser) to display the forecasts. This type of output makes the prediction system platform independent. Since the beginning of 1997 the model has been running online, predicting the production of a large number of wind farms in Denmark, Great Britain and Greece. The HIRLAM predictions are sent via the Internet to Ris. At Ris a system is set up that runs the power prediction model every time a new forecast arrives. The output from this model is HTML files which are automatically put on the Internet as WWWpages. The HIRLAM model run is available about two and four hours after its verify (initialization) time, depending on the geographical location of the wind farm. The time in transit between DMI and Ris (or the utility) is insignificant, and the power prediction model runs in less than a minute for all the wind farms. Since the HIRLAM model is run twice a day, the Webpages are also updated twice a day with a new 36hour forecast. The latest development is that the HIRLAM prediction horizon has been extended to 48 hours. To give an example of the general performance of the model, results obtained from a previous study are given below. A total of 17 wind farms were modelled for an entire year, from February 1995 to January 1996 94. The performance for the oneyear period of one of these wind farms (Kyndby, Zealand, DK) is shown in Fig. 22. It can be seen from this, that in the first four hours the socalled persistence model (stating that what is measured now, is the prediction at any time in the