Figure 11. Downstream development of turbulence intensities at (a) hub height and (b) hub height  0.5D, for three different wind speeds. The smooth curves were drawn through averaged data at 2D, 7.5D, 14.5D undisturbed data correspond to 24 diameters downstream 45. Hub height is 31 m and rotor diameter 28 m.;Figure 11. Downstream development of turbulence intensities at (a) hub height and (b) hub height  0.5D, for three different wind speeds. The smooth curves were drawn through averaged data at 2D, 7.5D, 14.5D undisturbed data correspond to 24 diameters downstream 45. Hub height is 31 m and rotor diameter 28 m.speed fluctuations to a good approximation follow a Normal distribution, accel erations are in general observed to have wider distributions (longer tails) 48. Despite these deviations and because of the lack of a better description, the gust, defined as the maximum wind speed during a measurement period of 560 min utes, is often calculated using a Gaussian process as an approximation 49, 50. Using assumptions of stationarity, and that a wideband process results in a joint Gaussian description of u and dudt, the expected gust value during time T, where we first have blockaveraged data over time , is; (6)where u()2 is the variance of wind speed fluctuations filtered with a lower cutoff at the frequency 1T and blockaveraged over time  and  u()2 is the filtered variance of wind accelerations. The results of such a calculation 51, using the Kaimal spectrum, are shown in Fig. 12(a), which also shows the results of simulated Gaussian turbulence 52 plot ted as a function of the length scale (spectral peak) of the turbulence. Measured data from the Finnish Kopparnas site are shown in Fig. 12(b) for different heights, plotted as a function of wind speed. These measurements are quite consistent with the model results, and show very little variation with height. The scatter around the curves is larger at low wind speeds and decreases towards higher speeds typical standard deviations are 0.5 at 5 m s1 and 0.4 at 15 m s1. Another school of gust modelling takes its starting point in different character istic shapes of gust events, that vary depending on the data set used. Some typical examples are described in 53. For calculations of the mechanical loads on a wind turbine rotor, it is necessary to have detailed information about the spatial structure of the 3D wind field. Many load models use the Veersmodel 54, but in recent years the more efficient, realistic and flexible Mannmodel has been developed 55.