Figure 22. The performance of the Ris model compared to the persistence model for the Kyndby wind farm, using a full years worth of data. The rated power of the wind farm is 3.78 MW, i.e. the error never exceeds 10 of the rated power. The forecast length in hours is along the xaxis. ME is the mean error (squares) and MAE the mean absolute error (circles).;Figure 22. The performance of the Ris model compared to the persistence model for the Kyndby wind farm, using a full years worth of data. The rated power of the wind farm is 3.78 MW, i.e. the error never exceeds 10 of the rated power. The forecast length in hours is along the xaxis. ME is the mean error (squares) and MAE the mean absolute error (circles).future) performs better than the developed model after this time the model is superior. It can also be seen that the mean absolute error (i.e. the scatter) seems to increase only very slowly with lookahead time. A detailed analysis of the model performance and the error is given in 91. As an example of the detailed performance of the model, the first real fall storm in Europe in 1997 has been predicted. To that end, measurements from the 118 m mast at Ris National Laboratory were used. The measurements, along with the model predictions, are plotted in Fig. 23. It appears that the development of the storm was predicted extremely well and also well in advance at no point in time are the predictions more than 3 m s1 away from the measurements and for most of the duration of the storm, they are well below this limit. The storm was predicted about 30 hours in advance, leaving utilities ample time to schedule the conventional power plants. In the potentially critical highwind area, close to the cutout wind speed of most turbines, the model predicts the wind speed accurately. Wind speeds below 5 m s1 do not contribute to wind turbine power production and wind speeds between 15 m s1 and 25 m s1 provides maximum power output. Therefore, the prediction of wind speeds in the interval from 5 m s1 to 15 m s1;future) performs better than the developed model after this time the model is superior. It can also be seen that the mean absolute error (i.e. the scatter) seems to increase only very slowly with lookahead time. A detailed analysis of the model performance and the error is given in 91. As an example of the detailed performance of the model, the first real fall storm in Europe in 1997 has been predicted. To that end, measurements from the 118 m mast at Ris National Laboratory were used. The measurements, along with the model predictions, are plotted in Fig. 23. It appears that the development of the storm was predicted extremely well and also well in advance at no point in time are the predictions more than 3 m s1 away from the measurements and for most of the duration of the storm, they are well below this limit. The storm was predicted about 30 hours in advance, leaving utilities ample time to schedule the conventional power plants. In the potentially critical highwind area, close to the cutout wind speed of most turbines, the model predicts the wind speed accurately. Wind speeds below 5 m s1 do not contribute to wind turbine power production and wind speeds between 15 m s1 and 25 m s1 provides maximum power output. Therefore, the prediction of wind speeds in the interval from 5 m s1 to 15 m s1is particularly important for estimating the power production at any given time accurately. The model predictions are also close to the measured data in this wind speed range. The excellence of these predictions is entirely due to the prediction skills of the HIRLAM model.