The turbulent variations of the wind speed are typically expressed in terms of the standard deviation, u, of velocity fluctuations measured over 10 to 60 minutes, normalized by the friction velocity or by the wind speed. The variation in these ratios is caused by a large natural variability, but also to some extent because they are sensitive to the averaging time and the frequency response of the sensor used. In horizontally homogeneous terrain, the turbulence intensity, Iu  uU, is a function of height and roughness length in addition to stability, whereas uu, not too far from the ground, may be considered a function of stability only. A typical value for neutral conditions is uu  2.5 for homogeneous flat terrain, often larger for inhomogeneous terrain, but with very large local variations. The turbulence intensity is a widely used measure, and for neutral conditions with a logarithmic wind profile over flat terrain, we find Iu  1 ln(zz0). Typical values of Iu for neutral conditions in different terrains are;Measurements from a number of sites were shown in 29. The variations with stability can also be considerable, especially at low to moderate wind speeds, with smaller resulting turbulent intensities in stable conditions and larger values in unstable conditions values of 25 are not unusual in flat open grassland for moderately unstable conditions. The variances are quite sensitive to the averaging time because much of the turbulent kinetic energy appears at quite low frequencies, in both unstable and particularly in stable conditions. In the latter case, the variance can be completely dominated by largescale slow variations in wind speed and direction overlaid with very little turbulence 30. In wakes we see increased turbulence levels together with decreased mean wind speeds, leading to significantly larger turbulence intensities than for the free flow 31, 32, 26, 33. The turbulent velocity fluctuations can be described as a result of stochastic broadband processes. We see variations in velocity in a broad range of frequencies and scales, and numerous models have been used to describe the distribution of en ergy over different scales as a function of stability and height. These models can be subdivided into two families the socalled Kaimalspectra and their generaliza tions 34, 35, 36, providing good empirical descriptions of observed spectra in the atmosphere, and the von Karman spectra, which may provide a good description of turbulence in tubeflows and wind tunnels, but are less realistic for atmospheric turbulence 37. The popularity of the latter can mainly be attributed to the fact that they feature simple analytical expressions for the correlations. Examples of spectra in flat homogeneous terrain are shown in areaconserving representations in Fig. 8(a). Typical spectra, (at near neutral, and not too close to the ground) are dominated by broad maxima and falling off towards high frequencies as f 53. The very low frequency behaviour is typically characterized by a large amount of variation and statistical uncertainty. Note the quite large differences in variances for different stabilities, with large variances in the unstable boundary layer and much smaller variances in the stable boundary layer. The traditional way of relating length and time scales in turbulence is through the socalled Taylor frozen turbulence approximation, i.e. the turbulence statis tics can be regarded as a result of a frozen picture of turbulence advected past the observer by the mean wind, such that   Uf, where  is a length scale and f the corresponding frequency observed in a fixed frame of reference. In the sim ple Kaimal formulation for neutral conditions, approached from stable conditions, spectra close to the ground have a dominating length scale of about 22 times the height above the ground. This is a fair approximation at low heights and moderate