Wind Power Meteorology is not a term to be found in a standard glossary of meteorological terms. However, it is a discipline which has evolved under its own provisions. It can formally be described as applied geophysical fluid dynamics, but a more understandable definition would rest on a combination of meteorology and applied climatology. Meteorology is atmospheric science in its widest sense. It consists of the atmospheric thermodynamics and chemistry, the qualitative and quantitative description of atmospheric motion, and of the interaction between the atmosphere and the Earths surface and biosphere in general. Its goals are the complete understanding and the accurate prediction of atmospheric phenomena. It is one of the most complex fields of both natural and applied science. Climatology is the scientific study of climate and its practical application. It uses the same basic data as meteorology and the results are particularly useful to problems in industry, agriculture, transport, building construction, and biology. Many of the aspects of climatology make it a part of meteorology, but when the emphasis is on specific climate conditions at a particular point on the Earths surface, it is clearly part of geography. Wind power meteorology thus does not belong wholly within the fields of either meteorology, climatology or geography. It is applied science, whose methods are meteorological, but whose aims and results are geographical. It concerns itself with three main areas micrositing of wind turbines, estimation of regional wind energy resources, and shortterm prediction of the wind power potential, hours and days ahead. With respect to wind power meteorology, siting is defined as estimation of the mean power produced by a specific wind turbine at one or more specific locations. A full siting procedure includes considerations such as the availability of power lines and transformers, the present and future land use, and so on. However, these aspects are not considered here. To put paid to the problem of proper siting of wind turbines with respect to the wind resource, we require proper methods for calculating the wind resource, the turbulence conditions, the extreme wind conditions, and the effects of rotor wakes. Regional assessment of wind energy resources means estimating the potential output from a large number of wind turbines distributed over the region. Ideally, this results in detailed, highresolution and accurate resource maps, showing the wind resource (yearly and seasonal), the wind resource uncertainty, and areas of enhanced turbulence. Forecasting of the meteorological fields, hours and days ahead is one of the great challenges of meteorology. The tremendous increase in computer power and of the observational density (by satellites in particular) and quality have contributed to a marked increase in forecasting skills over the last decade. This, in turn, has made it possible to construct a methodology by combining numerical weather prediction models with micrositing models to predict the power output from specific wind farms up to 48 hours ahead. These three topics and wind power meteorology in general are treated in the following sections. First, the history, status and perspectives are described. This description constitutes by no means a full account of what has been done by whom admittedly, it gives a rather subjective view the Ris perspective on matters. The next two sections set the stage for wind power meteorology with respect to meteorology and climatology and the following section relates it to geography. Then wind data are treated, in particular the means by which these data are obtained. Finally, a description of the numerical meteorological models  spanning from full, global circulation models over highresolution limitedarea models to microscale models  is given.