A software system which stores and processes data on a geographical or spatial basis. GIS can be used to evaluate potential sites for wind farms and consider a variety of geographic data simultaneously, such as wind conditions, population and bird migration routes. Guy Wires A tensioned cable designed to add stability to tall, narrow structures frequently used to support ship masts, radio masts and wind turbines. Indirect Employment Indirect employment includes employment throughout the production chain, including those who supply raw materials and intermediate components to, for example, a wind turbine. Life Cycle Assessment;An evaluation of the environmental impacts of a given product or service, such as a wind farm, throughout its life cycle, including manufacturing the parts, installation, operation and disposal. Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Refers to NO and NO2, which are often produced by combustion under high pressure and high temperature, such as in the engine of a car. NOx is a major contributor to acid depositions, the formation of groundlevel ozone in the troposphere, and photochemical smog. Offshore Wind Developments Wind projects installed in shallow waters off the coast. Turbine construction has to be modified to accommodate the depth of the water (Figure 5). A number of countries have built offshore wind developments, but currently there are no offshore wind farms in the U.S.. Onshore Wind Developments Wind farms installed on land (Figure 3d). Landbased wind farms are significantly cheaper to build than offshore facilities, but the wind is generally stronger and more steady offshore. Participatory Planning A planning process open to high levels of public engagement. The success of a wind farm development is influenced by the nature of the planning and development process, and public support tends to increase when the process is open and participatory. Thus, collaborative approaches to decisionmaking in wind power implementation can be more effective than top down, imposed decisionmaking. Renewable Energy Energy which comes from renewable resources such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides and geothermal heat, which are naturally replenished. Fossil fuels, such as coal and oil, are considered non renewable resources because they are consumed much faster than nature can create them. Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) A heavy, pungent, colorless gas formed primarily by the combustion of fossil fuels. It is harmful to human beings and vegetation, and contributes to the acidity in precipitation. Wind Lease An agreement signed by a landowner that grants a developer the right to use their land for wind development, and in return, provides compensation to the landowner. Typically, the developer owns any turbines that are put up and does all of the work of developing the project. Wind leases are binding legal documents that typically cover 30 to 60 years or more. These agreements can allow turbines to be constructed on privately owned, actively farmed land (Figure 2a). Wind Power Class A way of quantifying on a scale the strength of the wind at a project site. The Department of Energy defines the wind class at a site on a scale from 1 to 7 (1 being low and 7 being high) based on average wind speed and power potential to offer guidance about where wind projects might be feasible. Class 3 is typically the minimum required for utilityscale wind development.