Nacelle The nacelle sits atop the tower and contains the gearbox, shafts, and generator of a wind turbine. Some nacelles are large enough for a helicopter to land on. Pitch The angle between the edge of the blade and the plane of the blades rotation. Blades are turned, or pitched, out of the wind to control the rotor speed. Rated Wind Speed The wind speed at which the turbine is producing power at its rated capacity. The rated wind speed generally corresponds to the point at which the turbine can perform most efficiently. Because of the variability of the wind, the amount of energy a wind turbine actually produces is lower than its rated capacity over a period of time. Rotor Hub The center of a turbine rotor, which holds the blades in place and attaches to the shaft. The rotor refers to both the turbine blades and the hub (Figure 2b). Shaft The rotating part in the center of a wind turbine or motor that transfers power. A highspeed shaft drives the generator. A lowspeed shaft is turned by a rotor at about 30 to 60 rpm. Tower The base structure that supports and elevates a wind turbine rotor and nacelle. Wind Turbine A machine that captures the force of the wind. Also called a wind generator when used to produce electricity. Most commercial wind generators are horizontal axis wind turbines (Figure 2 and 3). If wind energy is used directly by machinery, such as for pumping water, cutting lumber or grinding stones, the machine is called a windmill. Wind Vane Measures wind direction and communicates with the yaw drive to orient the turbine properly with respect to the wind. Yaw To rotate around a vertical axis, such a turbine tower. The yaw drive is used to keep a turbine rotor facing into the wind as the wind direction changes.;Figure 4a. Transporting a turbine blade of 1.5 MW test turbine which when complete have a rotor diameter of 250 feet. (Colorado, 2008);4c. Installing the blades for a 1.3 MW turbine at the Nine Canyon Wind Project (Washington, 2002). All photos from US Dept. of Energy, National Renewable Energy Laboratory.;4b. Lifting the 163,000 lb. nacelle and rotor hub for a 1.5 MW turbine at Tatanka Wind Energy (North Dakota, 2007).