Cloudbase radiative heating is usually much weaker than cloud top cooling, because of the small absolute temperature difference between the cloudbase and the surface. This process differs from the preceeding ones because it destabilizes the cloud layer, but stabilizes the subcloud layer. If conditions are right, cloudbase heating can contribute to the decoupling of the cloud and subcloud layers. Cloudlayer shear generates mechanical turbulence and mixing. Usually, the shear is found near cloud top, although it is less frequently found near cloud base. The turbulence generated by cloudtop shear generates very localized mixing and entrainment, and can also contribute to decoupling of the cloud layer from the subcloud layer unless there are other turbulent processes that can mix the excess TKE throughout th whole ML. Cloudtop entrainment instability was descibed earlier, and is associated with entrainment that leads to free convection of cold descending air parcels. Given the proper ambient conditions at cloud top and the appropriate trigger, this process usualIy dries and warms the ML, causing the cloudbase height to rise and the cloud deck to break up.;Fig. 13.21 Effect of radiative cooling in the mixed layer on the idealized circulation path. (a) Liquid water path (b) virtual dry static energy path (c) moist static energy path. (After Wang  Albrecht. 1986).;Both the Eulerian and process partitioning of the TKE budget have been used to study mixing in stratocumulus clouds. Some of the Eulerian methods are discussed in the next subsection. Wang and Albrecht (1986) used a process approach to model the updraft and downdraft portions of the mixing circulations directly. A sample of their modeled updraft and downdraft paths is shown in Fig 13.21, where they found that the thermodynamic differences between the two paths is much less than the differences between the cloud and its environment. Moeng (1987) analyzed her largeeddy simulation model by grouping the warm rising and cold sinking air parcels into a processproduction component of TKE, and the warm sinking and cold rising parcels into the processconsumption component. She found that consumption is a larger fraction (0.22) of the total production (buoyant and shear) of TKE for cloudtopped MLs than for cloudfree MLs, where the fraction was only 0.15 (see Fig 13.22). Moeng also confirmed that most (85) of the longwave radiative cooling occurs near the top edge of the cloud, in the entrainment zone portion of the BL.