The result of this fourstep process is an empirical equation or a set of curves which show the same shape  in other words the curves look self similar. Hence, the name similarity theory. If this empirical result is indeed universal, then we can use it on days and locations other than those of the experiment itself. Such expectations should be tested with an independent data set, before the results are disseminated to the rest of the scientific community. If we selected in step (1) more variables than were necessary, the data will tell us of our mistake by indicating no change of the other dimensionless groups with respect to the group that is irrelevant. If we selected too few variables, or excluded an important variable, the. data will also indicate our error by showing a large scatter or no repeatable patterns between the dimensionless groups. Step (2) can often be performed by inspection of the relevant variables. In fact. based on the classes of similarity theory frequently used in meteorology (see Section 9.3.3). we can anticipate the dimensionless groups, although we can not always anticipate the relationship between the groups. For the very complex problems, we can employ Buckingham Pi Theory to identify the appropriate dimensionless groups. Similarity theory does not tell us the form of the equation or the relationship between the dimensionless groups. Instead. we must use trial and error. physical insight. or automated techniques to select the form that qualitatively looks the best. For example. we might express one group as a power law function of another group. as a logarithmic relationship, or as a constant that is not a function of other groups. The chosen equation usually contains unknown coefficients. which can then be solved by regression against the observed data. The resulting equations are called similarity relationships (or relations), or sometimes, improperly, similarity laws. Frequently, the dimensionless data graphs or curves are presented without a corresponding regression equation, because no simple equation could be found. For these cases. one can use the graph directly to determine the value of one dimensionless group as a function of the values of the other groups. We normalize an important variable when we divide it by other variables to make it dimensionless hence. these graphs represent normalized data. Similarity relationships are usually designed to apply to equilibrium (steadystate) situations. They are frequently used to yield equilibrium profiles of mean variables and turbulence statistics as a function of height or position. Rarely is time included as one of the relevant variables. Some variables. such as depth of the boundary layer. are so strongly dependent on time that no successful similarity expressions have been found to diagnose them. Instead. boundary layer depth must be ca!culated or measured using other techniques. This depth is used as input into dimensionless groups to diagnose other variables that do reach a quasisteady state. Finally. similarity theory is a type of zeroorder closure. Once the similarity relationships have been identified, they can be used to diagnose equilibrium values of mean wind, temperature, moisture. and other variables as a function of height without any turbulence closure assumptions being made.