(11.4.3e)where the three parameters are c1  0.0167, c2  0.5, and c3  0.0006. The first term in square brackets parameterizes buoyant production, the second surface mechanical production, and the last mechanical production at the top of the ML. The distance, d1, is the distance between the top of the ML and the height where the heat flux profile crosses zero;There are many other methods that have appeared in the literature, and which wont be listed here. Most are variations of the above methods. Some, such as proposed by Deardorff (1979), offer generalized approaches that do not depend on ajump or slab type of model. Most approaches have been tested against observed data and give realistic results within the uncertainties of the data. Contributing to some of the uncertainty is subsidence, which is not easily measurable and can be as large as the entrainment velocity. Section 11.5 examines some of the characteristics of boundary layer subsidence. There were some additional methods to forecast ML depth that were tested, but which did not work well. One method assumed that the ML depth was proportional to the Ekman layer depth. Another assumed that a bulk Richardson number could be formed using the wind and temperature difference across the whole ML depth, and that Zj was found using the requirement that the bulk Richardson number equal some constant critical value.;There are many other methods that have appeared in the literature, and which wont be listed here. Most are variations of the above methods. Some, such as proposed by Deardorff (1979), offer generalized approaches that do not depend on ajump or slab type of model. Most approaches have been tested against observed data and give realistic results within the uncertainties of the data. Contributing to some of the uncertainty is subsidence, which is not easily measurable and can be as large as the entrainment velocity. Section 11.5 examines some of the characteristics of boundary layer subsidence. There were some additional methods to forecast ML depth that were tested, but which did not work well. One method assumed that the ML depth was proportional to the Ekman layer depth. Another assumed that a bulk Richardson number could be formed using the wind and temperature difference across the whole ML depth, and that Zj was found using the requirement that the bulk Richardson number equal some constant critical value.l1.4.S Example;Problem Given w 8 v  0.2 K mis, u.  0.2 mis, g8 v  0.0333 m s2 Kl,;Zj  I km, fiEZ8v  2 K. Find we using thea) Flux ratio method b) Energetics method (special case equation 11.4.3e).