MEAN BOUNDARY LAYER CHARACfERlSTICS 3the solar energy. It is the ground that warms and cools in response to the radiation, which in turn forces changes in the boundary layer via transport processes. Turbulence is one of the important transport processes, and is sometimes also used to define the boundary layer. Indirectly, the whole troposphere can change in response to surface characteristics, but this response is relatively slow outside of the boundary layer. Hence, our defmition of the boundary layer includes a statement about onehour time scales. This does not imply that the boundary layer reaches an equilibrium in that time, just that alterations have at least begun. Two types of clouds are often included in boundarylayer studies. One is the fair weather cumulus cloud. It is so closely tied to thermals in the boundary layer that it is difficult to study the dynamics of this cloud type without focusing on the triggering boundarylayer mechanisms. The other type is the stratocumulus cloud. It fills the upper portion of a wellmixed, humid boundary layer where cooler temperatures allow condensation of water vapor. Fog, a stratocumulus cloud that touches the ground, is also a boundarylayer phenomenon. Thunderstorms, while not a surface forcing, can modify the boundary layer in a matter of minutes by drawing up boundarylayer air into the cloud, or by laying down a carpet of cold downdraft air. Although thunderstorms are rarely considered to be boundary layer phenomena, their interaction with the boundary layer will be reviewed in this book.;Air flow, or wind. can be divided into three broad categories mean wind, turbulence, and waves (Fig 1.3). Each can exist separately, or in the presence of any of the others. Each can exist in the boundary layer, where transport of quantities such as moisture, heat, momentum. and pollutants is dominated in the horizontal by the mean wind, and in the vertical by turbulence.;Fig. 1.3 Idealization of (a) Mean wind alone. (b) waves alone. and (c) turbulence alone. In reality waves or turbulence are often super imposed on a mean wind. U is the component of wind in the xdirection.