It is surprising to find that the coherence is 1.0 for all frequencies. This indicates that there is a very close relationship between w and q for all frequencies or wavelengths, for this contrived example. For real turbulence data the coherence would not equal 1.0 for all frequencies. Next, look at the individual q series. There is an obvious oscillation with three cycles within the whole period of record. In addition there is a background low frequency change of the time series. Looking at the simple spectrum for q, the spectral intensity is indeed large for n  3 and n  1. A similar conclusion can be reached for w, For both of these series, there is a distinct spectral minimum at n  2. This minimum shows up in the cospectrum at n  2. Thus, waves with two cycles per;It is surprising to find that the coherence is 1.0 for all frequencies. This indicates that there is a very close relationship between w and q for all frequencies or wavelengths, for this contrived example. For real turbulence data the coherence would not equal 1.0 for all frequencies. Next, look at the individual q series. There is an obvious oscillation with three cycles within the whole period of record. In addition there is a background low frequency change of the time series. Looking at the simple spectrum for q, the spectral intensity is indeed large for n  3 and n  1. A similar conclusion can be reached for w, For both of these series, there is a distinct spectral minimum at n  2. This minimum shows up in the cospectrum at n  2. Thus, waves with two cycles perperiod contribute little to the total covariance wq . This is in sharp contrast with the wq time series itself, which shows a very definite n  2 wave. The simple spectrum analysis of wq also yields the largest spectral component at n  2. This tells us that the variance (not covariance) of the wq time series has a large contribution at n  2, even though the;period contribute little to the total covariance wq . This is in sharp contrast with the wq time series itself, which shows a very definite n  2 wave. The simple spectrum analysis of wq also yields the largest spectral component at n  2. This tells us that the variance (not covariance) of the wq time series has a large contribution at n  2, even though thecovariance itself, wq  has a minimum at n  2.;In the discussion presented above, it was easy to compare the spectra with features in the original time series, because the series were so short. For real turbulence data consisting of thousands of data points, it is not so easy to pick out features by eye. For these situations, spectral analysis is particularly valuable.;The periodogram is just a least squares best fit of sine and cosine waves to the original signal (Le., to the time series). Because the original time series need not consist of evenly spaced data points for the periodogram to work, it has a very distinct advantage over the discrete Fourier transform. In fact, for some data sets with data gaps or missing data, it is the only method to calculate spectral information short of making up bogus data to fill the gaps. The prime disadvantage of the periodogram is that it takers longer to compute than an FFT. First, the mean of the original time series of variable A is subtracted from each A(k) data point to yield a modified time series for A(k). For each frequency (n) a wave of the following form is fitted to the data; 21tkn A  a cos  1 N  21tkn  a2sin  (8.9a)where A is the deviation of A from the mean, and where al and a2 are the bestfit coefficients to be determined. Solving for al and a2 (both a function of n) in the least squares sense gives