Mean wind is responsible for very rapid horizontal transport, or advection. Horizontal winds on the order of 2 to 10 mls are common in the boundary layer. Friction causes the mean wind speed to be slowest near the ground. Vertical mean winds are much smaller, usually on the order of millimeters to centimeters per second. Waves, which are frequently observed in the nighttime boundary layer, transport little heat, humidity, and other scalars such as pollutants. They are, however, effective at transporting momentum and energy. These waves can be generated locally by meanwind shears and by mean flow over obstacles. Waves can also propagate from some distant source, such as a thunderstorm or an explosion. The relatively high frequency of occurrence of turbulence near the ground is one of the characteristics that makes the boundary layer different from the rest of the atmosphere. Outside of the boundary layer, turbulence is primarily found in convective clouds, and near the jet stream where strong wind shears can create clear air turbulence (CAT). Sometimes atmospheric waves may enhance the wind shears in localized regions, causing turbulence to form. Thus, wave phenomena can be associated with the turbulent transport of heat and pollutants, although waves without turbulence would not be as effective. A common approach for studying either turbulence or waves is to split variables such as temperature and wind into a mean part and a perturbation part. The mean part represents the effects of the mean temperature and mean wind, while the penurbation part can represent either the wave effect or the turbulence effect that is superimposed on the mean wind. As will be seen in later chapters of this book, such a splitting technique can be applied to the equations of motion,. creating a number of new terms. Some of these terms, consisting of products of perturbation variables, describe lIolllinear interactions between variables and are associated with turbulence. These terms are usually neglected when wave motions are of primary interest. Other tetms, containing only one penurbation variable, describe linear motions that are associated with waves. These terms are neglected when turbulence is emphasized.;Turbulence, the gustiness superimposed on the mean wind, can be visualized as consisting of irregular swirls of motion called eddies. Usually turbulence consists of many different size eddies superimposed on each other. The relative strengths of these different scale eddies define the turbulence spectrum. Much of the boundary layer turbulence is generated by forcings from the ground. For example, solar heatillg of the ground during sunny days causes thermals of warmer air to rise. These themlals are just large eddies. Frictional drag on the air flowing over the ground ctuses willd shears to develop, which frequently become turbulent. Obstacles like trees and buildings deflect the flow, causing turbulent wakes adjacent to, and downwind of the obstacle. The largest boundary layer eddies scale to (ie, have sizes roughly equal to) the depth of the boundtry layer that is, 100 to 3000 m in diameter. These are the most intense