Discussion. Even though the virtual potential temperature is only about 4 K warmer than the potential temperature, this difference is on the same order as the difference between the warm air rising in thermals and the surrounding environment. Thus, neglect of the humidity in buoyancy calculations could lead to erroneous conclusions regarding convection and turbulence.;Over oceans, the boundary layer depth varies relatively slowly in space and time. The sea surface temperature changes little over a diurnal cycle because of the tremendous mixing within the top of the ocean. Also, water has a large heat capacity, meaning that it can absorb large amounts of heat from the sun with relatively little temperature change. Thus, a slowly varying sea surface temperature means a slowly varying forcing into the bottom of the boundary layer. Most changes in boundary layer depth over oceans are caused by synoptic and mesoscale processes of vertical motion and advection of different air masses over the sea surface. An air mass with a temperature different than that of the ocean will undergo a modification as its temperature equilibrates with that of the sea surface. Once equilibrium is reached, the resulting boundary layer depth might vary by only 10 over a horizontal distance of 1000 km. Exceptions to this gentle variation can occur near the borders between two ocean currents of different temperatures (Stage and Weller, 1976).;Over oceans, the boundary layer depth varies relatively slowly in space and time. The sea surface temperature changes little over a diurnal cycle because of the tremendous mixing within the top of the ocean. Also, water has a large heat capacity, meaning that it can absorb large amounts of heat from the sun with relatively little temperature change. Thus, a slowly varying sea surface temperature means a slowly varying forcing into the bottom of the boundary layer. Most changes in boundary layer depth over oceans are caused by synoptic and mesoscale processes of vertical motion and advection of different air masses over the sea surface. An air mass with a temperature different than that of the ocean will undergo a modification as its temperature equilibrates with that of the sea surface. Once equilibrium is reached, the resulting boundary layer depth might vary by only 10 over a horizontal distance of 1000 km. Exceptions to this gentle variation can occur near the borders between two ocean currents of different temperatures (Stage and Weller, 1976).z;Schematic of synoptic  scale variation of boundary layer depth between centers of surface high (H) and low (L) pressure. The dotted line shows the maximum height reached by surface modified air during a onehour period. The solid line encloses the shaded region, which is most studied by boudaryIayer meteonogists.;Schematic of synoptic  scale variation of boundary layer depth between centers of surface high (H) and low (L) pressure. The dotted line shows the maximum height reached by surface modified air during a onehour period. The solid line encloses the shaded region, which is most studied by boudaryIayer meteonogists.x