508 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOOYexpensive and less accurate. (3) The fluxemissivity, or graybody, method assumes that each atmospheric layer can be represented by a single transmissivity or emissivity averaged over all wavelengths. This approach is the least expensive to use, but is sufficiently accurate for many applications. Mahrt (personal communication) notes that any of the three models can give poor results if the vertical resolution near the. surface is too coarse. Using the fluxemissivity method, the net upward longwave flux, I, at any height z is described by;The flux emissivity, ef is found from tables (e.g., Staley and Jurica, 1970), graphs or other parameterizations (Cerni and Parish, 1984 Chou, 1984), and is a function of the optical thickness, u(z,Z), between the height of interest, z, and any other height Z where the radiation was emitted. The absolute temperature, T, is also evaluated at height Z and T G is the surface radiative skin temperature. Emissivities from the bottom of the boundary;The flux emissivity, ef is found from tables (e.g., Staley and Jurica, 1970), graphs or other parameterizations (Cerni and Parish, 1984 Chou, 1984), and is a function of the optical thickness, u(z,Z), between the height of interest, z, and any other height Z where the radiation was emitted. The absolute temperature, T, is also evaluated at height Z and T G is the surface radiative skin temperature. Emissivities from the bottom of the boundarylayer and the (effective) top of the atmosphere are eFB and eFf, respectively. Optical thickness is given by;u(z,Z)  J q dz (12.2.1c)z z;Equation (12.2.1b) must be solved numerically. using the observed temperature soundings and the parameterizations for flux emissivity (Cerni and Parish, 1984). See Section .13.2 for more discussion on radiation. The bulk heat flux, QR. associated with radiation divergence across the whole SBL is defined as the difference in longwave radiative flux between the bottom and top of the SBL, and is negative when radiative cooling occurs;Q  I  I R 5 h (l2.2.ld)