. o .... f o dewlfrost;In urban areas, a ML can continue throughout the night because of the large heat capacity of buildings and streets, and because of heat released from transportation and space heating. Early evening shallow SBLs in the neighboring rural countryside are not observed in the city. Later at night, when the rural stable layer is deeper than the height of urban buildings, a shallow layer of air within the city can remain well mixed, but it is capped by a stable layer (Godowitch, et al., 1985). SBL winds can have very complex characteristics. In the lowest 2 to 10 m, cold air will drain down hill. Wind direction in this layer is determined by local topography wind speed is governed by buoyancy, friction, and entrainment. In flat areas or at the bottom of valleys or topographic depressions, the wind can become calm. Higher in the SBL synoptic and mesoscale forcings become important. The wind speed can increase with height, reaching a maximum near the top of the stable layer. The layer of peak wind speed is sometimes greater than the geostrophic speed, and is called the nocturnal jet. Wind directions often veer (tum clockwise) with height. Above the jet, the wind speed and direction smoothly change to geostrophic. The wind profile is often not in steadystate, and evolves with time during the night. Humidity is also difficult to classify, because sometimes evaporation from the surface continues at night, while at other locations or times condensation results in dew or frost formation. In cases of reduced turbulence, strong moisture gradients can occur near the surface. The delicate balance between turbulence and stability is apparent in the formation of fog vs. dew, and in the fog processes of dissipation, thickening, or lifting. Fog processes will be discussed in Chapter 13. Pollutants or other scalar tracers that are emitted into the SBL spread out horizontally in thin layers. This process is called fanning (see Fig 1.10). Even without tracer emission from a single source at night, the strong wind shears and wind direction changes advect in air of differing tracer concentrations at different altitudes, resulting in a layer cake pattern of tracer concentration (see Fig 12.2). This layered finescale vertical structure in aerosols is also apparent in temperature, humidity, and turbulence (Gossard,