For the special case of constant divergence with height, (11.5.2a) reduces to;For the special case of constant divergence with height, (11.5.2a) reduces towL (z)  Div . zi;Horizontal divergence is not trivial to measure. Theoretically, we must measure the normal velocities out of a specified horizontal area, and we must make these measurements at every point on the perimeter of the area. Some remote sensors, such as Doppler radar and Doppler lidar, come closest to satisfying this requirement by measuring radial velocity at any specified range as a function of azimuth. A plot of this data is called a velocityazimuth display (VAD). Unfortunately, ground clutter for the radar can contaminate the velocity statistics. Surface mesonetwork stations placed close together along the perimeter of the area can be used to estimate divergence near the surface, assuming that surface terrain features do not contaminate the velocities. As stations are spaced further apart along the perimeter, divergence accuracy drops. If the diameter of the network is too small, then the horizontal velocity difference across the network could be too small to resolve. Finally, a network ofrawinsonde launch sites can be used to find divergence using the Bellamy method however, sonde accuracy, large site separations, and sondetosonde calibration errors can contaminate divergence calculations. Vachalek, et al. (1988) found that the rawinsonde divergence integrated over the ML depth, and surface divergence from mesonetwork stations yielded the best results. Divergence fluctuations on a wide range of horizontal and temporal scales are usually superimposed on each other. Smaller diameter features appear to have greater magnitudes (by factors of up to 100) and shorter durations than the large diameter features. For example, a region of diameter 5 km was found to have peak divergence magnitudes in the range of 104 to 105 Sl, while regions of diameter 100 km had peak divergences of 105;Horizontal divergence is not trivial to measure. Theoretically, we must measure the normal velocities out of a specified horizontal area, and we must make these measurements at every point on the perimeter of the area. Some remote sensors, such as Doppler radar and Doppler lidar, come closest to satisfying this requirement by measuring radial velocity at any specified range as a function of azimuth. A plot of this data is called a velocityazimuth display (VAD). Unfortunately, ground clutter for the radar can contaminate the velocity statistics. Surface mesonetwork stations placed close together along the perimeter of the area can be used to estimate divergence near the surface, assuming that surface terrain features do not contaminate the velocities. As stations are spaced further apart along the perimeter, divergence accuracy drops. If the diameter of the network is too small, then the horizontal velocity difference across the network could be too small to resolve. Finally, a network ofrawinsonde launch sites can be used to find divergence using the Bellamy method however, sonde accuracy, large site separations, and sondetosonde calibration errors can contaminate divergence calculations. Vachalek, et al. (1988) found that the rawinsonde divergence integrated over the ML depth, and surface divergence from mesonetwork stations yielded the best results. Divergence fluctuations on a wide range of horizontal and temporal scales are usually superimposed on each other. Smaller diameter features appear to have greater magnitudes (by factors of up to 100) and shorter durations than the large diameter features. For example, a region of diameter 5 km was found to have peak divergence magnitudes in the range of 104 to 105 Sl, while regions of diameter 100 km had peak divergences of 105to 107. A comparison of the relative frequency of events of different divergence magnitude and horizontal scale is presented in Fig 11.34. The short duration (1 h) divergence events occur about 10 times more frequently than long duration events, and about 95 of all divergence events had durations shorter than 8 h. This implies that divergence and subsidence estimated from a largediameter network will not show largemagnitude shortperiod variations, and thus may be useless for estimating subsidence over a fixed point at any specific time. Vachalek, et al. (1988) studied how the divergence variations were associated with meso and synopticscale features, and developed the following idealized divergence models