GEOGRAPHIC EFFECfS 607hill, the wind profile experiences the speedup already discussed. Over succeeding hills, the superposition of the effects from the individual hills accumulate to generate a wind profile that is slower at low levels, characteristic of a larger roughness length (Hunt, 1980).;Mixed Layer Capped by an Inversion. Some interesting phenomena can occur when a mixed layer approaches a 2D ridge (Fig 14.19), because the capping inversion tends to constrain the flow response to occur within the mixed layer. Define a modified Froude number, Fr, by;For Zj  zhill two different types of flow can occur depending on the wind speed (Hunt, 1980 Carruthers and Choularton 1982). For relatively slow wind speeds (Fr  I), acceleration over the ridge crest can locally draw down the inversion via a Bernoulli mechanism (Fig 14.19a). To the lee of the ridge light winds are found in the region of boundarylayer separation. For faster winds (Fr  1) with a strong capping inversion, the mixed layer accelerates down the lee side of the mountain in a very shallow highvelocity flow (Fig 14.19b) that is sometimes called a downslope windstorm in the Boulder, Colorado area, or bora in Yugoslavia. Wind gusts greater than 50 mls have been measured in Boulder during one of these severe downslope winds, with substantial damage to houses and trees and aircraft reports of severe to extreme turbulence (Lilly, 1978). The bora can last 4 to 6 days (Smith, 1987). Downwind of the ridge there can be a hydraulic jump, where the boundary layer rapidly decelerates and the depth increases. The hydraulic jump can be visualized as a wave or bore that is trying to propagate upstream, in a flow that is fast enough to counteract any propagation towards the mountain. Twolayer models capture most of the important physics of this phenomenon, while threelayers offer more accuracy (Smith and Sun, 1987). If Zj zltiU then the mixed layer tends to evolve as if the hill were not present. This is particularly true for light winds and strong convection. For a high isolated 3D mountain and a shallow boundary layer (zi  Zltiu), the air is constrained to flow around the mountain (Fig 14.19c). This can cause a street of von Karman vortices (Brighton, 1978) to form downwind of the mountain (Fig 14.l9d).;14.2.4 Flow Over Other Complex Terrain;Many other phenomena can occur for various valley and pass geometries (Egan, 1975). Boundary layer winds can be funneled through mountain passes, generating strong pass winds. Ambient flow crossing narrow valleys can generate both alongvalley flow and crossvalley circulations within the valley (Erasmus, 1986a and b). Differential