We saw in the last section that fluid motion can transport quantities, resulting in fluxes. Turbulence also involves motion. Thus we expect that turbulence transports quantities too.;A term like w e looks similar to the kinematic flux terms of the last section, exceptthat the perturbation values are used instead of the mean values of W and e. If turbulence is completely random, then a positive we one instant might cancel a negative we at some later instant, resulting in a near zero value for the average turbulent heat flux. As is shown below, however, there are situations where the average turbulent flux might be significantly different from zero. As a conceptual tool, suppose we examine a small idealized eddy near the ground on a hot summer day (see Fig 2.12a). The average potential temperature profile is usually superadiabatic in such surface layers. If the eddy is a swirling motion, then some of the air from position 1 will be mixed downward (i.e., w is negative) , while some air from position 2 will mix up (i.e., w is positive) to take its place. The average motion caused;that the perturbation values are used instead of the mean values of W and e. If turbulence is completely random, then a positive we one instant might cancel a negative we at some later instant, resulting in a near zero value for the average turbulent heat flux. As is shown below, however, there are situations where the average turbulent flux might be significantly different from zero. As a conceptual tool, suppose we examine a small idealized eddy near the ground on a hot summer day (see Fig 2.12a). The average potential temperature profile is usually superadiabatic in such surface layers. If the eddy is a swirling motion, then some of the air from position 1 will be mixed downward (i.e., w is negative) , while some air from position 2 will mix up (i.e., w is positive) to take its place. The average motion causedby turbulence is w  0, as expected (from section 2.4.3). The downward moving air parcel (negative w) ends up being cooler than its surroundings (negative e, assuming that e was conserved during its travel), resulting in an instantaneous product we that is positive. The upward moving air (positive w) is warmer than its surroundings (positive e), also resulting in a positive instantaneous product we. Both the upward and downward moving air contribute positively to the;by turbulence is w  0, as expected (from section 2.4.3). The downward moving air parcel (negative w) ends up being cooler than its surroundings (negative e, assuming that e was conserved during its travel), resulting in an instantaneous product we that is positive. The upward moving air (positive w) is warmer than its surroundings (positive e), also resulting in a positive instantaneous product we. Both the upward and downward moving air contribute positively to theflux, we thus, the average kinematic eddy heat flux w e is positive for this smalleddy mixing process. This important result shows that turbulence can cause a net transport of a quantity such;flux, we thus, the average kinematic eddy heat flux w e is positive for this smalleddy mixing process. This important result shows that turbulence can cause a net transport of a quantity suchas heat (w e t 0), even though there is no net transport of mass (w  0). Turbulent eddies transport heat upward in this case, tending to make the lapse rate more adiabatic. Next, lets examine what happens on a night where a statically stable lapse rate is present (Fig 2.12b). Again, picture a small eddy moving some air up and some back down. An upward moving parcel ends up cooler than its surrounding (negative we), while a downward moving parcel is warmer (negative we). The net effect of the small;as heat (w e t 0), even though there is no net transport of mass (w  0). Turbulent eddies transport heat upward in this case, tending to make the lapse rate more adiabatic. Next, lets examine what happens on a night where a statically stable lapse rate is present (Fig 2.12b). Again, picture a small eddy moving some air up and some back down. An upward moving parcel ends up cooler than its surrounding (negative we), while a downward moving parcel is warmer (negative we). The net effect of the smalleddy is to cause a negative w e  meaning a downward transport of heat.