From Fourier analysis in calculus we remember that any wellbehaved continuous function can be described by an infinite Fourier series  namely, the sum of an infinite number of sine and cosine terms. In the case of a discrete time series with a fmite number of points, we are required to have only a finite number of sine and cosine terms to fit our points exactly.;N! Inverse Transform A (k) L FA (n) ei 21tnkN (8.4.1 a) nO;N! Inverse Transform A (k) L FA (n) ei 21tnkN (8.4.1 a) nOwhere n is the frequency, and FA(n) is the discrete Fourier transform. We see that a time series with N data points (indexed from kO through Nl) needs no more than N different frequencies to describe it (actually, it needs less than N, as will be shown later). There are a number of ways to describe frequency;where n is the frequency, and FA(n) is the discrete Fourier transform. We see that a time series with N data points (indexed from kO through Nl) needs no more than N different frequencies to describe it (actually, it needs less than N, as will be shown later). There are a number of ways to describe frequencyn  number of cycles (per time period l?), fi  cycles per second  nl?, f  radians per second  21tnl?  21tn(Nfit).;A frequency of zero (n  0) denotes a mean value. Thefundamental frequency. where n  I, means that exactly one wave fills the whole time period, l? Higher frequencies correspond to harmonics of the fundamental frequency. For example, n  5 means that exactly 5 waves fill the period l? F A(n) is a complex number, where the real part represents the amplitude of the cosine waves and the imaginary part is the sine wave amplitude. It is a function of frequency because the waves of different frequencies must be multiplied by different amplitudes to reconstruct the original time series. If the original time series A(k) is known, then these coefficients can be found from;Forward Transform A(k) i 21lnkN FA(n)  L,  e kO (8.4.1b);Notice the similarity between (8.4.la) and (8.4.1 b). These two equations are called Fourier transform pairs. The second equation performs the forward transform. creating a representation of the signal in phase space (another name for the frequency