The southerly geostrophic winds often occur in the warm sectors of approaching cyclones in the central USA. These sectors are also sometimes conditionally unstable. Raymond (1978) and Uccellini and Johnson (1979) have shown that thunderstorms can be triggered by LUs in these situations.;During the daytime, winds in the ML are subgeostrophic because of strong frictional drag at the ground. At sunset when ML turbulence ceases, pressure gradients tend to accelerate the winds back toward geostrophic. However, the Coriolis force induces an inertial oscillation in the wind, causing it to become supergeostrophic later at night (Blackadar, 1957). Details of this oscillation are now discussed. The starting point in this analysis are momentum equations (3.5.3c  d) for the boundary layer. For simplicity, choose a coordinate system such that V g  0, and;During the daytime, winds in the ML are subgeostrophic because of strong frictional drag at the ground. At sunset when ML turbulence ceases, pressure gradients tend to accelerate the winds back toward geostrophic. However, the Coriolis force induces an inertial oscillation in the wind, causing it to become supergeostrophic later at night (Blackadar, 1957). Details of this oscillation are now discussed. The starting point in this analysis are momentum equations (3.5.3c  d) for the boundary layer. For simplicity, choose a coordinate system such that V g  0, andabbreviate the Reynolds stress divergence (friction) terms by dUWdZ  fcF u, and;dVWdZ  fcFv, where Fu and Fv have units of velocity. The equations becomedU f V f F Tt c c u (12.5.3a);dU f V f F Tt c c u (12.5.3a)dV f (0  U) f F dt c g c v (12.5.3b);In this fonn, we see that Fu and Fv represent the departure of the winds from geostrophic (i.e., the geostrophic departure). Next, assume that friction suddenly disappears above the surface layer at sunset. and that friction remains zero throughout the night. The nocturnal winds are expected to evolve with time. so we cannot assume steady state. Combine (12.5.3 a  b) into one equation by taking the time derivative of the first equation, and then substituting in the second equation