Thus, the N different FA values having both real and imaginary parts superficially gives 2N pieces of information, but since half of that is the complex conjugate of the other half, we are left with only N pieces of spectral information. It is reassuring that given only N data points in our original time series in physical space, we require only N pieces of information in phase space to precisely describe the data. For an original time series consisting of complex numbers (2N pieces of data), the Fourier transform does not have the complex conjugate property described above, resulting in 2N pieces of information is phase space too. For meteorological data where the time series is usually real, we still need to utilize the whole Fourier transform with the complex conjugate information, because without it the inverse transform will produce complex numbers instead of our desired real number physical field.;Data Window. Fourier series apply to infiniteduration periodic data sets. Stated in other words, if we examine only a finite size record of data, the Fourier analysis implicitly assumes that the data is periodic and thus repeats itself both before and after our limited period of measurement. In boundary layer meteorology, nothing is periodic for infinite time, or for infinite distance. Given a true signal (for example temperature) that varies as in Fig 8.7a, if we measure it over period lP (our data window) as in Fig 8.7b, then we are left with the segment shown in Fig 8.7c. Given this segment, the Fourier analysis assumes that it is dealing with a periodic (repeating) signal as shown in Fig 8.7d .. In this example, a smoothly varying meteorological signal appears as a sawtooth pattern to the Fourier analysis. From basic calculus, recall that a Fourier analysis can indeed describe series such as sawtooth or square wave patterns, but a wide range of frequencies are required to get the sums of all the sines and cosines to make the sharp bends at the points of the teeth. These spurious frequencies are called red noise by analogy to visible light because they appear at the low frequency end of the spectrum. To avoid red noise, we must at the very least detrend the data series by subtracting the straight line bestfit from the data segment (Fig 8.7c), leaving a modified time series as exemplified in Fig 8.7e. In general, any very low frequency that has a period longer than our whole sampling period will also generate the noise. If we know apriori the period of this frequency, such as diurnal or annual, then we can perform a leastsquares fit of this frequency to the time series and subtract the result from the series. Otherwise, we might try to fit a simple polynomial curve to the data and subtract it to both detrend it and remove thest low frequencies. Even after detrending, the sharp edges of the data Window cause what is known as leakage, where spectral estimates from anyone frequency are contaminated with some spectral amplitude leaking in from neighboring frequencies. To reduce leakage, a modified data window with smoother edges is recommended, such as is shown in Fig 8.7f. Although a variety of smoothers can be used, a common one utilizes sine or cosine squared terms near the beginning and ending 10 of the period of record, and is known as a bell taper