Fig. 1.12 Profiles of mean ML RL virtual potentigl temperature. e v, showing the SBL boundarylayer e. e. evolution during a d iurnal cycle   M starting at about 1600 local time. 16 identify FA each sounding FA with an associated CL launch time indicated in RL Fig. U. ML SC L ML;Fig. 1.12 Profiles of mean ML RL virtual potentigl temperature. e v, showing the SBL boundarylayer e. e. evolution during a d iurnal cycle   M starting at about 1600 local time. 16 identify FA each sounding FA with an associated CL launch time indicated in RL Fig. U. ML SC L MLe. e.;Stated another way, knowledge of the virtual potential temperature lapse rate is usually sufficient for determining the static stability. An exception to this rule is evident by comparing the lapse rate in the middle of the RL with that in the middle of the ML. Both are adiabatic yet, the ML corresponds to statically unstable air while the RL contains statically neutral air. One way around this apparent paradox for the classification of adiabatic layers is to note the lapse rate of the air immediately below the adiabatic layer. If the lower air is superadiabaric, then both that superadiabatic layer and the overlying adiabatic layer are statically unstable. Otherwise, the adiabatic layer is statically neutral. A more precise definition of static stability is presented later. It is obvious that as the virtual potential temperature profile evolves with time, so must the behavior of smoke plumes. For example, smoke emitted into the top of the NBL or into the RL rarely is dispersed down to the ground during the night because of the limited turbulence. These smoke plumes can be advected hundreds of kilometers downwind from their sources during the night. Smoke plumes in the RL may disperse to the point where the bottom of the plume hits the top of the NBL. The strong static stability and frequent reduction in turbulence reduces the downward mixing into the NBL. The top of the smoke plume sometimes can continue to rise into the neutral air. This is called loftillg (see Fig 1.13).