In the surface layer, the size of the turbulent eddies is limited by the presence of the earths surface. Thus, it is sometimes assumed that 2  k2z2, where k is the von Karman constant. The resulting expression for eddy viscosity in the surface layer is;For SBLs. Delage (1974) proposed the following parameterization for mixing length that has since been used as a starting point for other parameterizations (Estournel and Guedalia, 1987 and Lasser and Arya, 1986)kz  (6.4.4h) ;kz  (6.4.4h) where LL is a local Obukhov length (see Appendix A) based on local values of stress and;where LL is a local Obukhov length (see Appendix A) based on local values of stress andheat flux above the surface, G is geostrophic wind speed, and  is an empirical constant. Before leaving this section, we should examine the limitations of mixinglength theory. The relationship between w and z given by (6.4.4c) is only valid when turbulence is generated mechanically. Hence, mixinglength derivation is valid only for statically neutral situations, even though Ktheory has been applied to statically stable conditions. Also,linear gradients of wind and moisture were assumed in (6.4.4a  b). In the real atmosphere, gradients are approximately linear only over small distances (Le., the flIstorder term of a Taylors series expansion). Hence, we see that mixing length theory is a smalleddy theory.;The eddy viscosity is best not kept constant, as mentioned earlier, but should be parameterized as a function of the flow. The parameterizations for K should satisfy the following constraints  K  0 where there is no turbulence.  K  0 at the ground (zO).  K increases as TKE increases.  K varies with static stability (in fact, one might expect that a different value of K should be used in each of the coordinate directions for anisotropic turbulence).  K is nonnegative (if one uses the analogy with viscosity). This latter constraint has occasionally been ignored. The normal concept of an eddy viscosity or a smalleddy theory is that a turbulent flux flows down the gradient. Such a downgradient transport means heat flows from hot to cold, moisture flows from moist to dry, and so forth. Such downgradient transport is associated with positive values for K, and is indeed consistent with the analogy with molecular viscosity.