CLOUDS 577that is similar to a stratocumulus cloud (Welch and Wielicki, 1986 and Gerber, 1981). The following scenario shows how these fogs develop, and how the mist can become a wellmixed fog (Wessels, personal communication). As the air close to the ground cools further below the dew point temperature than air higher in the SBL, a mist can form that sometimes has greater liquid water content at the bottom than the top (Gerber, 1981). This fog has a diffuse top and is often very shallow, with depths from 1 m to about 5 m (Fig 13.25a). If the sun rises before this fog develops further, then shonwave radiation can penetrate the fog, heat the surface, and evaporate the fog. SBL scaling and dynamics can be used to describe this fog.;Fig. 13.25 Types of fog (a) mist where liquid water content decreases with height (b) dense, wellmixed fOQ and (c) elevated fogstratocumulus. IR radiation IS indicated by the longwavelength arrows, and solar radiation b the shortwavelen th arrows.;Instead, if the mist thickens and liquid water content increases during the night as radiative cooling continues, then there is less net radiative heat loss from the ground and more from the dense pans of the fog. Eventually, the fog becomes optically thick enough that there is greater radiative flux divergence near the top of the fog than the bottom. At this point, cooling at fog top generates cold thermals that sink and begin to convectively mix the fog layer. Very quickly, the fog becomes more uniform in the venical, with a welldefined top edge (Fig 13.25b). This sharp top also concentrates the radiative divergence closer to that region, which reinforces convective mixing in the fog layer. The wellmixed fog behaves like a stratocumulus cloud, and can consists of cellular circulation patterns or patches with a horizontal scale on the order of 2 to 3 times the fog depth (Welch and Ravichandran, 1985 and Welch and Wielicki, 1986). Both the well mixed fog and the stratocumulus cloud appear to follow convective ML scaling (using turbulent fluxes at the top of the ML where appropriate) rather than SBL scaling. Many of the parameterizations described earlier in this chapter for stratocumulus clouds can be applied to the wellmixed fog. Wellmixed fog can persist well into the morning, because much of the solar radiation is reflected from the top, and radiative cooling of the top continues during the day. The combined effects of absorption of a little solar radiation in the interior of the fog and