Free Atmosphere ...... i Entrainment zone;Typical daytime ruofiles of l1ean virtual potential temperature 9v  wind speed M (where M 117). water vapor mixing ratio T, and pollutant concentration c.;A stable layer at the top of the ML acts as a lid to the rising thermals, thus restraining the domain of turbulence. It is called the entrainment zone because entrainment into the ML occurs there. At times this capping stable layer is strong enough to be classified as a temperature inversion that is, the absolute temperature increases with height. In fact, it is frequently called an inversion layer regardless of the magnitude of the stability. The most common symbol for ML depth is zi which represents the average height of the inversion base. Wind speeds are subgeostrophic throughout the ML, with wind directions crossing the isobars at a small angle towards low pressure. The middle portion of the ML frequently has nearly constant wind speed and direction. Wind speeds decrease towards zero near the ground. resulting in a wind speed profile that is nearly logarithmic with height in the surface layer. Wind directions cross the isobars at increasingly large angles as the ground is approached, with 45 degree angles not uncommon near the surface. Mixing ratios tend to decrease with height, even within the center portion of the ML. This reflects the evaporation of soil and plant moisture from below, and the entrainment of drier air from above. The moisture decrease across the top of the ML is very pronounced, and is often used together with potential temperature profiles to identify the ML top from rawinsonde soundings. Most pollutant sources are near the earths surface. Thus, pollutant concentrations can build up in the ML while FA concentrations remain relatively low. Pollutants are transported by eddies such as thermals therefore, the inability of thermals to penetrate very far into the stable layer means that the stable layer acts as a lid to the pollutants too. Trapping of pollutants below such an inversion layer is common in high pressure regions. and sometimes leads to pollution alerts in large communities.