1) a) Resketch figure 1.7 without any shading. b) Next, shade on your figure those regions where the lapse rate is superadiabatic. (A color like red is appropriate.) c) In a different color (like dark blue), shade those regions that have a strongly stable lapse rate. d) With a different color (like light blue), shade those regions that have a weakly stable lapse rate. e) Leave the nearly adiabatic lapse rate regions unshaded. (Hint, look at the vinual potential temperature graphs shown after figure 1.7.) 2) From your answer above, we see that a large portion of the mixed layer and the residual layer have nearly adiabatic lapse rates. Nevenheless, there is a difference between the two. Comment on this difference. How would smoke disperse in these regions? 3) If a very tall smoke stack could inject a smoke plume into the free atmosphere, then what characteristic dispersion pattern would you expect? Options include looping, fanning, coning, lofting, fumigation, and trapping within a layer. 4) Given the boundary layer evolution shown in Fig 1.7 and 1.12, sketch the modified evolution that would occur if the sun was turned off at time SS. Also comment on the processes that could effectively tum off the effects of the sun on the boundary layer. S) If you observed the following measurement of wind speed on a strip chan, then what diameter (in meters) are the major eddies? (Hint First find the typical time duration of an eddy, and then employ Taylors Hypothesis.);6) Suppose that the boundary layer can be approximated by a I km constant thickness layer over the whole continental United States. Above that, assume that a constant thickness (10 km) free atmosphere exists. Assume that each of these layers is well mixed for simplicity. (You may need to consult synoptics textbooks or study a number of weather maps to answer the following questions.) a) On the average in spring, what fraction of the area of the continental United States is covered by cyclones (low pressure regions)? b) What is the average venical velocity magnitude out of the top of the boundary layer in those cyclonic regions? c) What is the average subsidence velocity acting on the top of the boundary layer in anticyclonic (high pressure) regions? Remember that the boundary layer is of constant