Fig. 5.12 Normalized Doppler radar derived standard deviation of perturbation pressure. After Galchen and Kroplli (1984).;What little is known about the behavior of pressure correlation terms is estimated as a residual in the budget equations discussed previously. Namely, if all of the other terms in a budget equation are measured or parameterized, then the residual necessary to make the equation balance includes an estimate of the unknown term(s) together with the accumulated errors. An obvious hazard of this approach is that the accumulated errors from all of the other terms can be quite large.;Estimates of w p , in the surface layer are shown in Fig 5.11 using this method,composited with respect to a large number of convective plume structures. We see quite a variation both in the vertical and horizontal. Here, the plume is defmed by its temperature ramp signal. Fig 5.12 shows estimates of pressure variance based on Doppler radar measurements of motion within the ML.;Waves. Recall from chapters 1 and 2 that perturbations from a mean can describewaves as well as turbulence. Given measured values of w p , , it is impossible to separate;waves as well as turbulence. Given measured values of w p , , it is impossible to separatethe wave and turbulence contributions without additional information.;Work in linear gravity wave theory shows that w p , is equal to the upward flux ofwave energy for a vertically propagating internal gravity wave within a statically stable environment. This suggests that turbulence energy can be lost from the ML top in the form of internal gravity waves being excited by thermals penetrating the stable layer at the top of the ML. The amount of energy lost may be on the order of less than 10 of the total rate of TKE dissipation, but the resulting waves can sometimes enhance or trigger clouds. Turbulence within stable NELs can also be lost in the form of waves. One concludes that the pressure correlation term not only acts to redistribute TKE within the BL, but it can also drain energy out of the BL.