For even stronger winds and weaker stability (Fr  1.7) the natural wavelength is longer than the hill dimensions. This causes boundary layer separation at the lee of the hill, and creates a cavity with reverse surface wind direction immediately behind the hill (Fig 14.14d). Wave drag associated with flow over a hill is a maximum for the resonance state, and is less for leewave and boundarylayer separation (Fig 14.15).;Neutral Stratification. For strong winds and neutral stability, the Froude number approaches infinity, and is not an appropriate measure of flow dynamics. Flow of a neutral boundary layer over an isolated hill is sketched in Fig 14.14e. Streamlines are disturbed upwind and above the hill out to a distance of about three times the size of the hill. Beyond this region of influence, the flow does not feel the presence of the hill. Near the top of the hill the streamlines are packed closer together, causing a speed up of the wind. Immediately downwind of the hill in strong wind situations, there is often found a cavity (sometimes called a wind shadow) associated with boundary layer separation (Tampieri, 1987). This is the start of a turbulent wake behind the hill. The height of the wake is initially on the same order as the size of the hill, but it grows in size and decreases in turbulence intensity further downwind of the hill. Eventually, in the absence of other turbulence generating mechanisms, the turbulence decays completely far downwind of the hill, and the flow returns to its undisturbed state. Similar flow patterns are found near buildings (Hanna, et aI., 1982). For weaker winds and smooth gentle hills, the cavity and turbulent wake sometimes do not form (Taylor, et aI., 1987). The speedup at the crest of the hill is sketched in Fig 14.16. The fractional speedup;Neutral Stratification. For strong winds and neutral stability, the Froude number approaches infinity, and is not an appropriate measure of flow dynamics. Flow of a neutral boundary layer over an isolated hill is sketched in Fig 14.14e. Streamlines are disturbed upwind and above the hill out to a distance of about three times the size of the hill. Beyond this region of influence, the flow does not feel the presence of the hill. Near the top of the hill the streamlines are packed closer together, causing a speed up of the wind. Immediately downwind of the hill in strong wind situations, there is often found a cavity (sometimes called a wind shadow) associated with boundary layer separation (Tampieri, 1987). This is the start of a turbulent wake behind the hill. The height of the wake is initially on the same order as the size of the hill, but it grows in size and decreases in turbulence intensity further downwind of the hill. Eventually, in the absence of other turbulence generating mechanisms, the turbulence decays completely far downwind of the hill, and the flow returns to its undisturbed state. Similar flow patterns are found near buildings (Hanna, et aI., 1982). For weaker winds and smooth gentle hills, the cavity and turbulent wake sometimes do not form (Taylor, et aI., 1987). The speedup at the crest of the hill is sketched in Fig 14.16. The fractional speedupratio, 6Mruu is defined as;Fig. 14.16 Sketch of wind speedup over a gentle hill. (After Teunissen, et aI., 1987),