In northern Australia a propagating hydraulic jump phenomenon has frequently been observed during the night and early morning. This undular bore is locally known as the morning glory, because it is visible on humid mornings as a spectacularlooking, very lowaltitude, rapidly propagating (1015 mls), rolling, wavecloud band (Smith, et al., 1982). A bore is a rapidly propagating increase in fluid depth, usually associated with tidal signals propagating up estuaries or canals (Lamb, 1932). In the atmosphere, it is believed to be associated with a propagating increase in SBL depth, triggered by a sea breeze or a katabatic flow, and enhanced by the presence of a nocturnal lowlevel jet (Noonan and Smith, 1986). Bore passage is characterized by a wind squall (surface wind speeds increase from 0.5 mls to 6 mls in just a few minutes wind directions change to point in the direction of bore movement), a pressure increase (0.1 kPa in 10 to 30 min), and the rolling cloud band. The morning glory phenomenon additionally exhibits a series of 3 to 5 oscillations (of pressure, wind speed, and wind direction) and the corresponding number of cloud bands over a 1 h period at the leading edge of the bore. Because of these oscillations, the phenomenon is classified as an undular bore.;Winds formed when cold dense air is accelerated downslope by gravity are called drainage winds, gravity flows, slope flows, or katabatic winds. Brost and Wyngaard (1978) and Mahrt (1981) showed that even gentle slopes of !zj!x  0.001 to 0.01 over a large area can cause drainage winds of I to 2 mls. Slopes at the Wangara field site in Australia were on the order of 0.007, while the average slope of the Great Plains in the USA is roughly 0.001. Both of these sites look flat to the eye, yet slopes are great enough to create drainage winds. Thus, we should expect to have drainage winds just about everywhere within SBLs over land. Kottmeier (1986) observed gravity flows over .the Ekstrom ice shelf. Large lakes and oceans are about the only places where we can ignore drainage winds. Even the smaller lakes and dry lake beds could be influenced by drainage winds, as cold air from the neighboring slopes drain into the low areas and accumulate as a pool of cold air. Since most weather stations are located in valleys, near rivers, or near lakes, we must expect that the reported winds and temperature are influenced by cold air drainage on radiatively clear nights, and are not representative of the rest of the boundary layer nor of the synoptic flow (assuming light synoptic winds). Fig 12.23 shows typical profiles of wind in a slope flow. Near the ground, drag reduces the wind speed. Just above the ground where friction is less but the lIIr is still relatively cold, there is a wind maximum or nose. Higher in the profile, shears across the top of the gravity flow in the presence of weaker stability allow significant turbulence,