14.2.1 The Internal Boundary Layer and Fetch I;Definitions. The air that is modified by flow over a different surface is called an internal boundary layer (IBL), because it forms within an existing boundary layer. When surface heat flux changes across the border between two surfaces, the modified air is called a thermal internal boundary layer (TIBL) (Lyons, 1975 Garratt, 1987). For a change in roughness with no change in surface heat flux or stability, the generic name internal boundary layer is usually used. The distance, x, downwind from a change in surface features is calledetch. When making surfacelayer measurements, it is desirable to locate the instrument mast far enough downwind of the border so that the depth of the internal boundary layer, 0, is greater that the height of the mast (see Fig 14.8). Thus, with sufficiently large fetch, the surfacelayer measurements are characteristic of the local field in which the instruments are located (Gash, 1986). For this reason, many surfacelayer measurements are made within large uniform farm fields, meadows, pasture land, or forests.;Definitions. The air that is modified by flow over a different surface is called an internal boundary layer (IBL), because it forms within an existing boundary layer. When surface heat flux changes across the border between two surfaces, the modified air is called a thermal internal boundary layer (TIBL) (Lyons, 1975 Garratt, 1987). For a change in roughness with no change in surface heat flux or stability, the generic name internal boundary layer is usually used. The distance, x, downwind from a change in surface features is calledetch. When making surfacelayer measurements, it is desirable to locate the instrument mast far enough downwind of the border so that the depth of the internal boundary layer, 0, is greater that the height of the mast (see Fig 14.8). Thus, with sufficiently large fetch, the surfacelayer measurements are characteristic of the local field in which the instruments are located (Gash, 1986). For this reason, many surfacelayer measurements are made within large uniform farm fields, meadows, pasture land, or forests.z;Change in Roughness. The IBL depth is often parameterized as a power of the fetch (Panofsky, et a!., 1982 SmedmanHogstrom and Hogstrom, 1978 Rao, et a!., 1974);(14.2.1a)where zd! and zo2 are the aerodynamic roughness lengths upwind and downwind of the border. The power, BL is equal to about 0.8 for statically neutral conditions, but is slightly smaller (0.6 to 0.7) in statically stable conditions, and larger for unstable (0.8 to 1.0). Parameter aIBL is in the range of 0.2 to 0.8, being large for unstable conditions