The resulting pool is often stably stratified throughout its depth, and is sometimes called the valley inversion. Pollutants emitted into this inversion can build to high concentrations because of the trapping between the valley walls, and can be hazardous to people, animals, and plant life on the slopes. After sunrise, solar heating warms the air near the valley walls, causing warm upslope anabatic winds (Fig 14.2d). These gentle winds (less than 1 mls) tend to hug the valley walls as they rise, eventually breaking away at their level of neutral buoyancy, or at the top of the ridge. Sometimes cumulus clouds known as anabatic clouds form in the warm air rising along the ridge axes. Above the valley inversion there is gentle convergence and subsidence. As this warmed air leaves the valley floor, the remaining pool of cold air sinks to replace it. In addition, solar heating of the valley floor itself causes a shallow mixed layer to form. Although this ML tends to grow by the entrainment processes discussed in Chapter II, a portion of the ML air is continuously drained away by the anabatic winds, causing the ML to rise much more slowly than would otherwise be expected over flat terrain (Fig 14.2e). The balance between ML entrainment and valleyinversion subsidence varies from situation to situation, between the extremes of no ML growth to rapid growth with little subsidence (Whiteman, 1982). For the case sketched in Fig 14.2e, the top and bottom of the valley inversion evolve as shown in Fig 14.3.;The resulting pool is often stably stratified throughout its depth, and is sometimes called the valley inversion. Pollutants emitted into this inversion can build to high concentrations because of the trapping between the valley walls, and can be hazardous to people, animals, and plant life on the slopes. After sunrise, solar heating warms the air near the valley walls, causing warm upslope anabatic winds (Fig 14.2d). These gentle winds (less than 1 mls) tend to hug the valley walls as they rise, eventually breaking away at their level of neutral buoyancy, or at the top of the ridge. Sometimes cumulus clouds known as anabatic clouds form in the warm air rising along the ridge axes. Above the valley inversion there is gentle convergence and subsidence. As this warmed air leaves the valley floor, the remaining pool of cold air sinks to replace it. In addition, solar heating of the valley floor itself causes a shallow mixed layer to form. Although this ML tends to grow by the entrainment processes discussed in Chapter II, a portion of the ML air is continuously drained away by the anabatic winds, causing the ML to rise much more slowly than would otherwise be expected over flat terrain (Fig 14.2e). The balance between ML entrainment and valleyinversion subsidence varies from situation to situation, between the extremes of no ML growth to rapid growth with little subsidence (Whiteman, 1982). For the case sketched in Fig 14.2e, the top and bottom of the valley inversion evolve as shown in Fig 14.3.z;Eventually, the cold pool of air is completely eliminated, leaving a daytime convective mixed layer (Fig 14.2f). When this happens, the TKE can suddenly increase, sometimes to 6 times its earlier morning value (Banta, 1985). The diurnal cycle can then repeat itself. In Figs 14.2d and e, the heating on both valley walls was idealized as being equal. In reality, the orientation of the valley walls relative to the sun position can cause one wall to be heated strongly, while the other is heated weakly or is in shadow. The resulting circulation is asymmetric, but otherwise proceeds as sketched.