During the diurnal cycle in mountainous regions, threedimensional circulations can form within and just above the valleys. We will initially examine the crossvalleyaxis flow (anabatickatabic slope winds) separately from the alongvalleyaxis flow (mountainvalley valley winds), and then combine the two components into a full threedimensional picture (Geiger, 1965). We will assume a topographic model as sketched in Fig 14.1 (Whiteman, 1982), with a river valley descending and deepening as it flows away from its source near the top of a mountain range. Along both sides of the valley and perpendicular to the mountainrange axis are ridges that also decrease in height. The valley is assumed to drain into a large open area such as a lake, ocean, plain, or a larger valley.;Fig. 14.1 (a) Topographic model for mountain circulations. (b) Idealized closeu of one valle . After Whiteman 1982.;AnabaticKatabatic CrossValley Winds. We will start our diurnal cycle at sunset, where it is assumed that a deep daytime mixed layer extends well above the top of the mountain range, and that turbulence then decays to leave a neutrally stratified warm residual layer over the whole mountain and valley system (Fig 14.2a). Radiative cooling of the mountain surfaces cools the air adjacent to the surfaces, resulting in cold downslope or katabatic winds. These winds are very shallow (2 to 20 m), and have velocities on the order of I to 5 mls. Above the valley floor, there is a gentle return circulation of upward moving air that diverges towards the ridges. The chilled air flows into the valley and collects as a cold pool. Although some of the cold air flows down the valley axis, some can remain in the vaIley depending on the topography (Fig 14.2b). During the night, continued katabatic winds fill the cold air pool. Above the cold pool is the remaining warmer RL air, resulting in a temperature inversion capping the cold pool. The cold air from higher on the ridges flows downslope until it reaches an altitude where its temperature is the same as the temperature of the air in the valley. As a result, the coldest air sinks to the bottom of the pool, while the cooler air slides into the pool at higher altitudes (Fig 14.2c).