Because the upcoming derivations are sometimes long and involved. it is easy to lose sight of the forest for the trees. The following summary gives the steps that will be taken in the succeeding sections to develop prognostic equations for mean quantities such as temperature and wind Step 1. Identify the basic governing equations that apply to the boundary layer. Step 2. Expand the total derivatives into the local and advective conoibutions. Step 3. Expand dependent variables within those equations into mean and turbulent (perturbation) parts. Step 4. Apply Reynolds averaging to get the equations for mean variables within a turbulent flow. Step 5. Add the continuity equation to put the result into flux form. Additional steps take us further towards understanding the nature of turbulence itself Step 6. Subtract the equations of step 5 from the corresponding ones of step 3 to get equations for the turbulent departures from the mean. Step 7. Multiply the results of step 6 by other turbulent quantities and Reynolds average to yield prognostic equations for turbulence statistics such as kinematic flux or turbulence kinetic energy. Section 3.2 covers steps 1 and 2. Section 3.3 takes a side road to look at some simplifications and scaling arguments.. In section 3.4 we get back on track and utilize steps 35 to derive the desired prognostic equations. After a few more simplifications in section 3.5, a summary of the governing equations for mean variables in turbulent flow is presented. Steps 6 and 7 are addressed in Chapters 4 and 5.;Five equations form the foundation of boundary layer meteorology the equation of state. and the conservation equations for mass, momentum. moisture. and heat. Additional equations for scalar quantities such as pollutant concentration may be added. It is assumed that the reader has already been exposed to these equations hence, the derivations are not given here.;3.2.1 Equation of State (Ideal Gas Law);The ideal gas law adequately describes the state of gases in the boundary layerp  Pair 9 Tv (3.2.1);p  Pair 9 Tv (3.2.1)where p is pressure. Pair is the density of moist air. Tv is the virtual absolute temperature.;where p is pressure. Pair is the density of moist air. Tv is the virtual absolute temperature.and 9 is the gas constant for dry air (9  287 JK 1 kgI). Sometimes. the density of;and 9 is the gas constant for dry air (9  287 JK 1 kgI). Sometimes. the density ofmoist air is abbreviated as P for simplicity.