Step 1. Hypothesize which variables could be important to the flow. Example stress, density, viscosity, velocity, pipe diameter, pipe roughness;Step 2. Find the dimensions of each of the variables in terms of the fundamental dimensions. The fundamental dimensions are L  length M  mass T  time K  temperature A  electric current 1  luminous intensity The dimensions of any variable can be broken into these fundamental dimensions. Example  fluid density fundamental dimensions ML3;Step 3 Count the number of fundamental dimensions in our problem. Example There are 3 dimensions L, M, T.;Step 4 Pick a subset of your original variables to become key variables, subject to the following restrictions (a) The number of key variables must equal the number of fundamental dimensions. (b) All fundamental dimensions must be represented in the key variables. (c) No dimensionless group must be possible from any combination of these key variables. Example Pick 3 variables p, D, and U to be the key variables. Note that there are many other equally valid choices for key variables, such as p, zO U or t,, D, etc. It does not matter which three are picked, assuming that all of the above restrictions are satisfIed. An invalid set would be U, D, zO because Dzo is dimensionless, and also because the fundamental dimension M is not;Step 4 Pick a subset of your original variables to become key variables, subject to the following restrictions (a) The number of key variables must equal the number of fundamental dimensions. (b) All fundamental dimensions must be represented in the key variables. (c) No dimensionless group must be possible from any combination of these key variables. Example Pick 3 variables p, D, and U to be the key variables. Note that there are many other equally valid choices for key variables, such as p, zO U or t,, D, etc. It does not matter which three are picked, assuming that all of the above restrictions are satisfIed. An invalid set would be U, D, zO because Dzo is dimensionless, and also because the fundamental dimension M is notrepresented. Another invalid set is t, p, U, because t(pU2) is dimensionless.