Problem. Given the sounding at right, identify the staticstability of the air at z  600 m.;Solution. Using a local definition in the absence of heat fluxes, if we look downward from 600 m until a diabatic layer is encountered, we find a stable layer with cooler temperatures at 200 m. Before we reach any hasty conclusions, however, we must look up from 600 m. Doing so we find cooler unstable air at 1000 m. Thus, the static stability is  at 600 m.;Solution. Using a local definition in the absence of heat fluxes, if we look downward from 600 m until a diabatic layer is encountered, we find a stable layer with cooler temperatures at 200 m. Before we reach any hasty conclusions, however, we must look up from 600 m. Doing so we find cooler unstable air at 1000 m. Thus, the static stability is  at 600 m.z (m) 6K);Discussion. The whole adiabatic layer is unstable, considering the nonlocal approach of a cool parcel sinking from above. This sounding is characteristic of stratocumulus.;5.5.3 Dynamic Stability and KelvinHelmholtz Waves;The word dynamic refers to motion hence, dynamic stability depends in part on the winds. Even if the air is statically stable, ind shears may be able to generate turbulence dynamically. Some laboratory experiments have been performed (Thorpe, 1969, 1973 Woods 1969) using denser fluids underlying lessdense fluids with a velocity shear between the layers to simulate the stable stratification and shears of the atmosphere. Fig 5.18 is a sketch of the resulting flow behavior. The typical sequence of events is (I) A shear exist across a density interface. Initially, the flow is laminar. (2) If a critical value of shear is reached (see section 5.6), then the flow becomes dynamically unstable, and gentle waves begin to form on the interface. The crests of these waves are normal to the shear direction (3) These waves continue to grow in amplitude, eventually reaching a point where each wave begins to roll up or break. This breaking wave is called a KelvinHelmholtz (KH) wave, and is based on different physics than surface waves that break on an ocean beach. (4) Within each wave, there exists some lighter fluid that has been rolled under denser fluid, resulting in patches of static instability. On radar, these features appear as braided ropelike patterns, cats eye patterns or breaking wave patterns. (5) The static instability, combined with the continued dynamic instability, causes each wave to become turbulent. (6) The turbulence then spreads throughout the layer, causing a diffusion or mixing of the different fluids. During this diffusion process, some momentum is transferred between the fluids, reducing the shear between the layers. What was formerly a sharp, welldefined, interface becomes a broader, more diffuse shear layer with weaker shear and static stability.