This parameterization has the same dimensions (m3s3) and the same tensor properties (unsummed i, j  k) as the original unknown. The symmetry of the original unknown is such that the order of the indices i, j, k is not significant. The same symmetry is achieved in the parameterization by having the sum of the three terms in square brackets. If only one term had been used instead of the sum, then a change in the order of the indices would;This parameterization has the same dimensions (m3s3) and the same tensor properties (unsummed i, j  k) as the original unknown. The symmetry of the original unknown is such that the order of the indices i, j, k is not significant. The same symmetry is achieved in the parameterization by having the sum of the three terms in square brackets. If only one term had been used instead of the sum, then a change in the order of the indices wouldhave produced a different numerical result (because 0 u v  oz is not necessarily equal to;OU w (()y). Since the gradient of the momentum flux is taken in all three Cartesiandirections in the square brackets, any rotation or displacement of the coordinate system will not change the result. Also, movement of the coordinate system at constant velocity;Cj (a Galilean transformation) does not change the parameterization, as can be seen by setting Xj  Xj  Cj t. The final rule is difficult to demonstrate here without a long explanation of all the constraints on the system, but as a sample we can look at one constraint. The original;Cj (a Galilean transformation) does not change the parameterization, as can be seen by setting Xj  Xj  Cj t. The final rule is difficult to demonstrate here without a long explanation of all the constraints on the system, but as a sample we can look at one constraint. The originalunknown appears in budget equation (4.4.lb) as OUjUjUkdXj which represents the;unknown appears in budget equation (4.4.lb) as OUjUjUkdXj which represents theturbulent transport of UjUk. When the vertical component of this term (au jU u k (()z) is;turbulent transport of UjUk. When the vertical component of this term (au jU u k (()z) isintegrated over the depth of the boundary layer it should equal zero, because it represents a movement of existing momentum flux from one height to another. The momentum flux drained by this term from one location within the turbulent domain should be deposited in a different part, yielding no net increase or decrease in total integrated momentum flux. This budget constraint is indeed satisfied by the parameterization above, because each of the terms in square brackets becomes zero when integrated over the whole BL depth. The remainder of this Chapter reviews some of the parameterizations that have been presented in the literature. This review is by no means comprehensive  it is meant only to demonstrate the various types of closure and their features. Regardless of the type of parameterization used, the result closes the equations of motion for turbulent flow and allows them to be solved for various forecasting, diagnostic, and other practical applications.;Zeroorder closure implies that no prognostic equations are retained, not even the equations for mean quantities. In other words, the mean wind, temperature, humidity, and other mean quantities are parameterized directly as a function of space and time. Obviously, this is neither local or nonlocal closure because it avoids the parameterization of turbulence altogether. For this reason, we will not dwell on zeroorder closure here, but will come back to it later in Chapter 9 under the topic of similarity theory.