Case D (Fig 8.10d) Un resolvable high and low frequencies. The first example shows that if the real signal has n  0.5, then the computed spectrum has a spike at n  1 with a significant amount of leakage to higher frequencies. This is called red noise and will be discussed in Case E. At n  1.5, there is still significant red noise. It is as if the leakage from the left side of the spike is folded back around n  0 to larger n values. At n  8.5, the leakage off the right of the peak appears to fold back to the left, creating a blue noise signal.;Case E (Fig 8.10e) Red noise. When signal with time period longer than the sampling period is truncated to fit within the sample window, the resulting periodic shape is fit by waves of the fundamental period and shoner. These waves are largest at the low frequency end of the spectrum. As the wave period increases, this becomes more apparent. In the extreme case of a linear trend (which acts like an infinite period or wavelength wave), we find a purely red noise spectrum. Its name comes from the fact that the spectrum shows energy at the incorrect frequencies (Le., error or noise), and that most of this noise is at the low frequencies (analogous to the red ponion of the visible light spectrum). We see why it is imponant to detrend raw signals before computing the FFT. Because of unresolvable low frequencies in general, and red noise in panicular, most meteorologists do not consider frequencies of 3 or less as being reliable. Some use n5 or n  10 as the cut off. In any case, we look for at least three waves per sampling period before we are confident that the spectral results are telling us about the physics of the boundary layer. Often, these low frequencies are not even plotted on spectra that are presented in the literature.;Case F (Fig 8.10f) Red, white, and blue noise. White noise consists of approximately equal amplitude spectral energies across the whole range of frequencies. This can be produced by a spike in the time series, or by completely random hash signal. If we could hear white noise (e.g., the audio analogy), it would sound like a hiss, like many leaves rustling or many waves breaking. Blue noise is associated with larger spectral amplitudes at the higher frequencies. A constant signal, shown in the founh example, consists of just a mean value (i.e., at n  0), and hence has zero variance and no spectral energy. A square wave yields a spectrum with many peaks and zeros.;Case G (Fig 8.10g) Leakage. The shoner a signal lasts within a record, the more difficult it is to resolve it. Each of these examples shows a signal with five cycles per period. In the first example, the spectrum shows the desired spike at n  5 with no energy at other frequencies. However, as the signal is cut shoner and shoner, the energy from the spike at n  5 leaks more and more into the neighboring frequencies. In the last example with just one wave left in the time series, the spectrum shows a nearly Gaussian spread. Hence, even though cenain signals in the time series may be evident to the eye, the FFT can have difficulty detecting it.