GEOGRAPHIC EFFECfS 601characteristics of the underlying surface. When one air mass moves away from its source region over a surface of different temperature or moisture. the process is called air mass modification. The TIBL is just one type of air mass modification.;Stable TIBL. For flow from a warmer to a cooler surface. a stable TIBL forms analogous to the SBLs discussed in Chapter 12. Immediately downwind of the surface change one finds decaying residual turbulence that is very effective at mixing some of the cooler air upward. Further downwind. the static stability suppresses turbulence. except near the surface and near other shear zones where mechanical TKE production still occurs. For these welldeveloped stable TIBLs. turbulence decreases with height to a poorly dermed top Gust as in the nonadvective SBL). Garratt (1987) suggests that the depth of the stable TIBL increases with the square root of distance;  x e  12 h  0.014 M ge (14.2.2d);  x e  12 h  0.014 M ge (14.2.2d)where e is the initial temperature difference between the air (before growth of the TIBL) and the new cooler surface. and x is the distance from the surface change. measured in the direction of the mean wind. As the bottom of the stable TIBL cools and approaches the surface temperature. the above equation becomes invalid because the surface heat flux approaches zero. Beyond this point there is no further change in TIBL depth except for that caused by subsidence.;Stable Stratification and the Froude Number. In statically stable conditions. perturbed air parcels oscillate vertically at the BruntVaisaIa frequency. NBy. When this;Stable Stratification and the Froude Number. In statically stable conditions. perturbed air parcels oscillate vertically at the BruntVaisaIa frequency. NBy. When thisoscillating air is imbedded in an air mass moving at mean wind speed M. a wave is traced;oscillating air is imbedded in an air mass moving at mean wind speed M. a wave is tracedby the parcel. This oscillation has a wavelength proportional to 21tWNBy which represents a natural wavelength of the air. If the length of the obstacle disturbing the flow is WT then we can write its effective wavelength as 2WT. The ratio of the natural wavelength of the air to the effective wavelength of the obstacle is defined as the internal Froude number;Frequently, this number is defined without the factor 1t. The Froude number is also sometimes described as the ratio of inertial to buoyant forces.