Although this roughness length is NOT equal to the height of the individual roughness elements on the ground, there IS a onetoone correspondence between those roughness elements and the aerodynamic roughness length. In other words, once the aerodynamic roughness length is determined for a particular surface, it does not change with wind speed, stability, or stress. It can change if the roughness elements on the surface change, such as caused by changes in the height and coverage of vegetation, erection of fences, construction of houses, deforestation or lumbering, etc. Typical values of the roughness length are indicated in Fig 9.6 (SmedmanHogstrom  Hogstrom, 1978 Hicks, et al, 1975 Garratt, 1977 Nappo, 1977 Thompson, 1978 and Kondo and Yamazawa, 1986). As expected, higher roughness elements are associated with larger aerodynamic roughness lengths. In all cases, however, the aerodynamic roughness length is smaller than the physical height of the roughness element. Lettau (1969) suggested a method for estimating the aerodynamic roughness length based on the average vertical extent of the roughness elements (h), the average silhouette or vertical crosssection area presented to the wind by one element (s.), and the lot size per element SL  (total ground surface area  number of elements);This relationship is acceptable when the roughness elements are evenly spaced, not too close together, and of similar height and shape. Kondo and Yamazawa (1986) proposed a similar relationship, where variations in individual roughness elements were accounted for. Let si represent the actual horizontal surface area occupied by element i, and hi be the height of that element. If N elements occupy a total area of ST, then the roughness length can be approximated by;N  0.25  h T. .. i Wi ....,. i  1 (9.7.2b);An approximation of the aerodynamic roughness can also be made by summing over the individual roughness elements encountered while traveling along a straight line of total length 4. For this case, one must consider the longitudinal width, Wi, of each element in the direction of travel. These expressions have been applied successfully to buildings in cities. We have already discussed Charnocks relationship for the roughness length of the sea surface, which can also be applied to blowing sand and blowing snow (Chamberlain, 1983) with appropriate change in parameter, Xc