Nonlinear waves can transport heat and scalars in addition to energy and momentum. (Hunt, et al., 1985). When (12.6.2c) is used in the basic conservation equations, one can derive averaged conservation equations for turbulence kinetic energy, wave kinetic energy, turbulent heat flux, wave heat flux, etc. using methods analogous to those used in Chapters 2 to 5. A detailed derivation of the averaged equations is beyond the scope of this book. However, the TKE equation for turbulence shown below gives a taste the interaction between waves and turbulence (Finnigan, et al., 1984);Nonlinear waves can transport heat and scalars in addition to energy and momentum. (Hunt, et al., 1985). When (12.6.2c) is used in the basic conservation equations, one can derive averaged conservation equations for turbulence kinetic energy, wave kinetic energy, turbulent heat flux, wave heat flux, etc. using methods analogous to those used in Chapters 2 to 5. A detailed derivation of the averaged equations is beyond the scope of this book. However, the TKE equation for turbulence shown below gives a taste the interaction between waves and turbulence (Finnigan, et al., 1984)where;ae at g we   ,, aU awe 1 awp  uwazazaz ev v pa(r ..  2) u. ll  aXj  J aXj  r ..  IJ au. 1  e;a(r ..  2) u. ll  aXj  J aXj  r ..  IJ au. 1  er ..   u.u.  u.u. IJ 1 J 1 J;(l2.6.2h)which can be viewed as wavelike fluctuations in the background Reynolds stress due to the presence of the wave. The terms in the fIrst line of (l2.6.2g) are the same as those described earlier in (5.1b). The terms in the second line are a result of the wave turbulence interaction. Also, the viscous dissipation terms are different than those described in Chapter 5.;Both waves and turbulence can be present in the SBL. Finnigan, et al. (1984) found that about 20 of the total variance for their case study was explained by coherent wave motion, the remainder being turbulence. The portion of any spectrum composed of idealized linear gravity waves can be idenifIed using cospectral techniques, because vertical motions and temperature will be 900 out of phase. Portions of the spectrum where phase differences are 0 or 1800 usually correspond to turbulence. DiffIculties can arise because many of the real waves might be highly nonlinear. For the special case of waves excited at only one wavenumber, we would expect nonlinear interactions to remove the wave energy from the excited wavenumber (source) and spread it to both higher and lower wave numbers. The spectrum of a mixture of waves and turbulence can often be split into three subranges (Fig 12.22) (1) At wavenumbers lower than the source (i.e., large eddies), similarity arguments give a .J power law spectral shape S(K) 0 K!, or K,S(K) 0 KO as in Fig 12.22). (2) Above the source wavenumber, in the buoyancy subrange of middlesize eddies, eddies are quasitwodimensional because of the suppression of vertical motions by stability. For quasi20 turbulence, TKE is not transferred across the spectrum, but enstrophy (meansquare vorticity) is. Similarity arguments give a 3 power law