Unfortunately, sound is attenuated so rapidly in the atmosphere that it is difficult to detect structures beyond a range of about 1 km. Since many mixed layers grow to heights above 1 km in the afternoons, the sodar is useless for determining z except in the early morning. Sodars call see the roots of thermals in the surface layer (see Fig 10.1 b). Sodar is particularly valuable at night, where it detects buoyancy waves and turbulence in the stable boundary layer (Fig lO.le).;Lidars transmit laser light, which is scattered off of air molecules, cloud !roplets and aerosols in the boundary layer. The returned light is collected in a telescope and focused on a photomultiplier detector, after which it is amplified, digitized and recorded. Because the source of many aerosols is the earths surface, the boundary layer often has a higher concentration than the free atmosphere. As a result, the whole boundary layer often provides strong lidar returns, which stands out in the display as a deep white area, compared to the darker free atmosphere. Thus, the lidar sees the boundary layer air, rather than just the interface at the top of the boundary layer. Fig 1O.lc shows sketches of RHI lidar returns for a convective mixed layer, where individual thermals are often visible within the pollUted mixed layer. Sometimes elevated haze layers are also visible. Aerosol swelling in the high relative humidities at the top of the mixed layer cause enhanced lidar returns, which show up brighter on the display. Clouds have such strong reflection and absorption that a strong return is generated at the base or the side of the cloud illuminated by the light. After a few tens of meters into the cloud, the light is so attenuated that there are nor more returns. Thus, the cloud appears opaque, and leaves a shadow behind it. Pollutants are also easily tracked by lidar. In statically stable conditions, there is frequently a change of wind direction with height within the lowest few hundred meters of the ground. As a result, air from different source regions with different aerosol contents are advected into the region. This frequently causes a layercake appearance, with thin horizontal strata of different brightness on the RHI display (Fig lO.If). When buoyancy waves exist. the strata also look wavy. Lidar PPI displays of convective mixed layers (Fig lO.li) show irregular perimeters to the thermals. Time lapse loops indicate lateral entrainment, or intromission. into the thermals analogous to the vertical entrainment at the top of the whole mixed layer. Near the center of the thermals there are sometimes undiluted cores.;Fig 10.2 shows a sketch of the instrument platforms to be described below. These platforms provide the physicaVstructural support for the sensor, shielding for the sensor, electrical power, and sometimes chemicals necessary for the measurements.