11.2.S Horizontal Roll Vortices and Mesoscale Cellular Convection;During conditions of combined surface heating and strong winds, weak horizontal helical circulations can form in the boundary layer (Kuettner, 1959 Brown, 1970 LeMone, 1973, 1976 Kropfli and Kohn, 1978 Doviak and Berger, 1980 Mason and Sykes, 1980, 1982 Reinking, et ai., 1981 Rabin and Doviak, 1982 Wilczak and Businger, 1983 Kelly, 1984 Atlas, et ai., 1986). These circulations are called horizontal roll vortices or rolls, and consist of clockwise and counterclockwise pairs of helices with their major axis aligned almost parallel with the mean wind. Some studies suggest that the roll axis should be roughly 18 to the left of the geostrophic wind direction for nearly neutral conditions, and that the angle decreases as the mixed layer becomes more statically unstable. The depth of these rolls equals the ML depth, and the ratio of lateral to vertical dimensions for a roll pair is about 3 I (see Fig 11.25).;Tangential velocities around the helices re usually less than I mls and are difficult to measure directly, although faster velocities occasionally occur. However, these velocities sweep other convective plumes and thermals into rows, creating alongwind rows of strong updraft. If sufficient moisture is present, cloud streets can form along these updraft rows. Such cloud streets are readily apparent from satellite imagery, particularly over ocean regions where there are no surface hot spots to destroy the organization. Rolls are frequently observed during coldair advection over warmer bodies of water, and are strongly associated with airmass modification. Rolls are also common in the lowlevel jet ahead of cold fronts, and (an occur between pairs of closed isobars of warm season anticyclones. Forest fues are also modulated by rolls, as is evident by long rows of unburned tree crowns in the middle of burned areas (Haines, 1982). Theories for roll formation include thermal instabilities and inertial instabilities. Thermally, we would expect there to be less friction on the rising thermals if they align in rows, because thermals would have neighbors that are also updrafts. Thus, alignment into rows can be buoyantly more efficient, and the alignment provides protection from the