Fig. 13.22 Simulation of production (8 p) and consumption (eN! for (a  b) Eulerian partioning, and (0  d) process partioning. (After Moeng, 1987).;During the day when solar heating of the cloud is significant, if the surface heat flux is small, then it is possible for turbulence in the cloud layer to become decoupled from turbulence in the bottom of the subcloud layer, with a stable transition layer in tween (Turton and Nicholls, 1987 Nicholls and Leighton, 1986). For this situation, TKE production is too weak to support the large TKE consumption associated with downward mixing of heated cloudlayer air into the subcloud layer. Using the Eulerian definition for production and consumption, Turton and Nicholls require that the net consumption below cloud base be less than a fraction of the net production above cloud top, where ZL is the height of the bottom of the cloudy ML;During the day when solar heating of the cloud is significant, if the surface heat flux is small, then it is possible for turbulence in the cloud layer to become decoupled from turbulence in the bottom of the subcloud layer, with a stable transition layer in tween (Turton and Nicholls, 1987 Nicholls and Leighton, 1986). For this situation, TKE production is too weak to support the large TKE consumption associated with downward mixing of heated cloudlayer air into the subcloud layer. Using the Eulerian definition for production and consumption, Turton and Nicholls require that the net consumption below cloud base be less than a fraction of the net production above cloud top, where ZL is the height of the bottom of the cloudy MLlr;It this condition is satisfied for ZL  0, then the cloud and subcloud layers are fully coupled. Otherwise, decoupling is suggested with zL  0 in order to satisfy (13.5.3a). Fig 13.23 shows examples of fully coupled and uncoupled layers. A fully coupled mixed layer can become decoupled after sunrise when there is sufficient heating within the cloud layer. The two layers can stay decoupled if there is sufficient cloud heating, or can become recoupled near sunset when the cloud heating is removed (see Fig 13.24). Other mechanisms can also cause decoupling. If cloudtop entrainment instability entrains sufficient warm air into the top of the cloud layer, then decoupling can occur (Rogers, et al., 1985a). Decoupling is also possible when shear generation of turbulence at the top of the cloud layer is large enough (Wai, 1987).