  (uo) (Z d) M  k In Zo (9.7.3a);  (uo) (Z d) M  k In Zo (9.7.3a)for statically neutral conditions. where we now defme M  0 at z  d  zo  Given wind speed observations in statically neutral conditions at three or more heights. it is easy to use computerized nonlinear regression algorithms such as the Marquardt Method or the GaussNewton Method to solve for the three parameters. u  zoo and d. If you are unsure whether a nonzero displacement distance is appropriate to your;for statically neutral conditions. where we now defme M  0 at z  d  zo  Given wind speed observations in statically neutral conditions at three or more heights. it is easy to use computerized nonlinear regression algorithms such as the Marquardt Method or the GaussNewton Method to solve for the three parameters. u  zoo and d. If you are unsure whether a nonzero displacement distance is appropriate to yoursituation. one approach is to plot M vs. (zd) for neutral conditions on a semilog graph as shown in Fig 9.8. As a first guess, tty d  O. If your selected d is too small. then the plotted proflle will curve concave upward. Use the intercept of this curve on the ordinate to provide the next guess for d. If d is too large. then the curve will be concave downward. Iterate until the plotted data shows no curvature. This trick will not work for nonneutral cases, nor for proflles that cross through internal boundary layers.;situation. one approach is to plot M vs. (zd) for neutral conditions on a semilog graph as shown in Fig 9.8. As a first guess, tty d  O. If your selected d is too small. then the plotted proflle will curve concave upward. Use the intercept of this curve on the ordinate to provide the next guess for d. If d is too large. then the curve will be concave downward. Iterate until the plotted data shows no curvature. This trick will not work for nonneutral cases, nor for proflles that cross through internal boundary layers.g 10;The disadvantage of this expression is that it is not explicit in d. However, this equation can be iteratively solved for d.