Fig. 11.10 Evolution of the entrainment zone measured by lidar at the BLX83 field site for 15 June 1983. The top and bottom lines represent the top and bottom of the entrainment zone, respectively, while the middle line is the avera mixed layer depth, z,. (After Wilde, et aI., 1985.);By late morning, for many cases, the cool nocturnal air has been warmed to a temperature near that of the residual layer, and the top of the ML has moved up to the residuallayer base. Since there is virtually no stable layer capping the ML at this point, the thermals penetrate rapidly upward during the second phase, allowing the top of the mixed layer to rise at rates of up to 1 Ian per 15 minutes. When the thermals reach the capping inversion at the top of the residual layer, they meet resistance to vertical motion again and the ML growth rate rapidly decreases. During this third phase the ML depth is relatively constant during most of the afternoon. Slow depth changes are related to the balance between entrainment and subsidence. These final depths vary widely from place to place, depending on synoptic and mesoscale conditions. Final depths of 400 m have been observed over some tropical ocean regions, while depths in some desert areas reach 5 lan. Typical depths over land in midlatitudes are on the order of 1 to 2 lan. As the sun sets. the generation rate of convective turbulence decreases to the point where turbulence can not be maintained against dissipation (Nieuwstadt and Brost, 1986). In the absence of mechanical forcings, turbulence in the ML decays completely. causing us to reclassify that layer as a residual layer. Temperature fluctuations decay the fastest, while TKE decays more slowly. During this decay process the last few weak thermals may still be rising in the upper part of the ML and can still cause entrainment, while the surface layer has already become stably stratified (Stull and Driedonks. 1987). Thermals and other eddies formed as the surface heating approaches zero appear to scale to the time scale, t., that existed at the time of thermal creation, resulting in a possible decoupling of large and small scales (e.g., old thermals vs. new shear eddies) and a failure of similarity theory.;Turbulent Entrainment and MixedLayer Growth. During freeconvection, buoyant thermals from the surface layer gain momentum as they rise through the ML. Upon reaching the warmer free atmosphere they find themselves negatively buoyant. but