390 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYhas been applied to spectra to help organize the spectral results, and to help focus our understanding about turbulence. As discussed in the previous chapter, the discrete power spectral intensity measures how much of the variance of a signal is associated with a particular frequency, f. If  represents any variable, then the discrete power spectral intensity E(O has units of 12. An obvious way to make the spectral intensity dimensionless is to divide it by the total;has been applied to spectra to help organize the spectral results, and to help focus our understanding about turbulence. As discussed in the previous chapter, the discrete power spectral intensity measures how much of the variance of a signal is associated with a particular frequency, f. If  represents any variable, then the discrete power spectral intensity E(O has units of 12. An obvious way to make the spectral intensity dimensionless is to divide it by the totalvariance  ,2. A continuous spectrum with power spectral density of S(O has the same;variance  ,2. A continuous spectrum with power spectral density of S(O has the sameunits as 2f, and can be made dimensionless by dividing by ,2f. Analogous expressions can be made for wavenumber spectra instead of frequency spectra. In both of these cases, the result is a spectrum that gives the fraction of total variance explained by a wavelength or wavelength band. Alternately, if the turbulence is driven or governed by specific mechanisms, such as wind shear, buoyancy, or dissipation, then the spectral intensities can be normalized by scaling variables appropriate to the flow. The next three Sections show normalized spectra for the inertial subrange, for surface layer turbulence generated mechanically, and for mixed layer turbulence generated buoyantly.;As discussed in Chapter 5, there are many situations where middle size turbulent eddies feel neither the effts of viscosity, nor the generation of TKE. These eddies get their energy inertially from the largersize eddies, and lose their energy the same way to smallersize eddies. For a steadystate turbulent flow, the cascade rate of energy down the spectrum must balance the dissipation rate at the smallest eddy sizes. Hence, there are only three variables relevant to the flow S, 1(, and E. This similarity approach was pioneered by Kolmogorov (1941) and Obukhov (1941). By performing a Buckingham Pi dimensional analysis, we can make only one dimensionless group from these three variables;23 .53 S(lC)  Clk E lC (9.9.1 );23 .53 S(lC)  Clk E lC (9.9.1 )where the Clk is known as the Kolmogorov constant. The value of this constant has;where the Clk is known as the Kolmogorov constant. The value of this constant hasyet to be pinned down (Gossard, et.a!., 1982), but it is in the range of Clk  1.53 to 1.68.