Fig. 6.8 (a) Schematic idealization of the eddies that mix air to and from the center grid box, in a 10 column of air. (b) Superposition of eddies acting on 3 of the grid boxes. After Stull (1984).;(8)i(tt)  f Cij(t,t) j(t) jl (6.8.1);This equation says that when air is mixed into box i from box j, the air carries with it anamount Cij of the tracer with concentration j The coefficient Cii represents the fraction of air in box i that remains within box i. Although (6.8.1) was developed for just one reference box, it is general enough to work for any and all equalsize boxes. If we recognize that cij is an NxN matrix of;amount Cij of the tracer with concentration j The coefficient Cii represents the fraction of air in box i that remains within box i. Although (6.8.1) was developed for just one reference box, it is general enough to work for any and all equalsize boxes. If we recognize that cij is an NxN matrix ofmixing coefficients (called a transilient matrix), and j is a Nxl matrix (i.e., a vector) of concentrations, then it is obvious that (6.8.1) describes simple matrix multiplication. When eddies move parcels of air from one grid box to another, the air will carry wi!ll it not only the tracer concentration, but the heat, moisture, momentum and other measures of the state of the fluid. Hence, (6.8.1) can be used for any of these variables, where the transilient matrix is the same for each variable (Le., it changes only with time and;mixing coefficients (called a transilient matrix), and j is a Nxl matrix (i.e., a vector) of concentrations, then it is obvious that (6.8.1) describes simple matrix multiplication. When eddies move parcels of air from one grid box to another, the air will carry wi!ll it not only the tracer concentration, but the heat, moisture, momentum and other measures of the state of the fluid. Hence, (6.8.1) can be used for any of these variables, where the transilient matrix is the same for each variable (Le., it changes only with time andtimestep). Of course, the j vector is different for each variable. A variety of physical processes can be modeled with the transilient scheme depending on the form of the transilient matrix. Idealized examples of complete mixing, smalleddy mixing (like Ktheory), a detraining updraft core, patchy turbulence, no turbulence, and eddies triggered by the surface layer are illustrated in Fig 6.9a. Fig 6.9b shows measurements (Ebert et aI., 1989) of the transilient matrix for a convective ML, with a lessturbulent FA above it. Contoured values of the matrix are presented rather than the raw numbers, and the matrix is flipped upsidedown so that the vertical coordinate corresponds to height increasing upward in the atmosphere. Not only is the mixing very nonlocal, but the matrix is asymmetric. Also in this figure is a diagram indicating the interpretation of such transilient matrices.