Strong convective mixing brings higher momentum air to the ground, where drag at the surface acts as a momentum sink. The mixing process is vigorous enough to maintain substantial wind speeds at the typical anemometer height of 10 m, in agreement with our casual observations that the surface winds are stronger during the day than at night over land. Superimposed on this mean wind profile is a gustiness associated with the passage of structures such as convergence lines and plumes. In the next subsections we will explore some of the details of surfacelayer structures. The structures examined here are those generated by heating at the bottom of the boundary layer, rather than by cooling at the top.;Plumes are coherent venical structures of warm rising air having diameters and depths on the order of the the slUface layer depth  namely 100 m. Above the surface layer, the plumes become more diffuse and appear to merge together to form the largerdiameter (order of 1 km) mixedlayer thermals. Some studies indicate that plumes occupy an average of about 42 of the horizontal area, with weak cool downdrafts between them. Fig 11.2 shows a sketch of an idealized plume and identifies its components (Kaimal and Businger, 1970 Wilczak and Tillman, 1980 Wilczak, 1984).; ... .. ,,.., ... , .. ,.. ittt t1!jF !tjtjijtf jijiliimiJ li  ... i)) ti ...... ,. .. , .. ,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,r,t4!!,,,, ....  ...... . .....  ......  .....  . ....  ...... .  .. 1,;Fig. 11.2 Idealized surfacelayer plume (shaded). (After Kaimal and Businger, 1970).;Even though buoyancy is the dominant forcing, the ambient mean wind modifies the plume structure so that the leading edge is diffuse and the trailing edge is sharp. The trailing edge is called the microront. Plumes translate horizontally with a speed equal to the mean wind speed averaged over their depth. Thus, the plumes translate horizontally at a speed faster than the surface wind speed, but slower (7080) than the mean mixed layer wind. Wind shear causes the plumes to tilt in the down shear direction at an inclination angle of about 45. The tilt is relatively constant with time in spite of the shear, but the plume is