1) Suppose that there is an air pollutant called gallacticum that is found within long, narrow spaceships. This pollutant decomposes faster in warmer air than in cooler air. Hence, the conservation equation for gallacticum is;1) Suppose that there is an air pollutant called gallacticum that is found within long, narrow spaceships. This pollutant decomposes faster in warmer air than in cooler air. Hence, the conservation equation for gallacticum isdc  acT dt;dc  acT dtwhere c is the concentration of gallacticum, a is a constant, T is the absolute air temperature, and t is time. Derive the prognostic equation for the mean concentration of gallacticum that applies to turbulent flow within the space ship. You can scale your equations to the space ship by assuming that, within the region of interest, the only mean wind is the;where c is the concentration of gallacticum, a is a constant, T is the absolute air temperature, and t is time. Derive the prognostic equation for the mean concentration of gallacticum that applies to turbulent flow within the space ship. You can scale your equations to the space ship by assuming that, within the region of interest, the only mean wind is theforced ventilation current, U , down the length of the space ship (in the xdirection). There is, however, horizontal homogeneity of mean quantities in the xdirection only. Be sure to put the turbulence term(s) into flux form. 2) Why is an understanding of turbulence necessary for studying and modeling the boundary layer? 3) Expand the following term, and describe its physical meaning.;forced ventilation current, U , down the length of the space ship (in the xdirection). There is, however, horizontal homogeneity of mean quantities in the xdirection only. Be sure to put the turbulence term(s) into flux form. 2) Why is an understanding of turbulence necessary for studying and modeling the boundary layer? 3) Expand the following term, and describe its physical meaning.au. u.   1 J v .. Uk . J aXk;4) List the steps, assumptions, simplifications and substitutions (in their proper order) used to get the following equation from (3.2.3b). Do NOT do the whole derivation, just list the steps.;4) List the steps, assumptions, simplifications and substitutions (in their proper order) used to get the following equation from (3.2.3b). Do NOT do the whole derivation, just list the steps.auw  f (V  V) c g  az;5) Very briefly define the following, and comment or give examples of their use in micrometeorology a) kinematic heat flux b) Reynolds stress c) horizontal homogeneity d) Boussinesq approximation 6) The forecast equation for mean wind in a turbulent flow isau. au.  fc ij3 Vj 1 aj a2v. a u. u.   , I) , , J Ua   3 g  paxi  v ax 2  at J x.  J J J A B C D E F G;au. au.  fc ij3 Vj 1 aj a2v. a u. u.   , I) , , J Ua   3 g  paxi  v ax 2  at J x.  J J J A B C D E F Ga) Name each term, and give its physical interpretation. b) Starting with the equation above, derive the equation for avdt , assuming D  o.