552 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYand sv  Sv cloud  Sv environ. Fig 13.3 shows four key levels of a convective cloud  cloud base (near the LCL)  level of free convection (LFC)  limit of convection (LOC)  cloud top;Fig. 13.3 Four key levels in an active cloud are related tocon(.nsation and buoyancy. The convective available potential energy (CAPE) is proportional to the shaded area.;con(.nsation and buoyancy. The convective available potential energy (CAPE) is proportional to the shaded area.z;Although condensation starts to occur in the parcel at cloud base, this condensation often forms in the negatively buoyant overshoot of a ML thermal into its capping inversion. Latent heat is released as the parcel rises. If the parcel has sufficient inertia to overshoot high enough, its potential temperature might rise to the point where it is again warmer than the environment. This point, where the cloudy parcel is first positively buoyant, is called the level of free convection (LFC). A cloud that reaches its LFC is classified as an active cloud. The cloud parcel continues to rise due to its own buoyancy while ev or sv is positive. The cloud temperature can be estimated by following a moist adiabat. Eventually, the rising parcel reaches a level where it is cooler than the environment. This point is called the limit of convection. The cloud parcel might overshoot beyond the limit of convection because of its inertia, eventually stopping its overshoot at cloud top. A variety of available potential energies can be defined from cloud properties. The vertical integral of the parcel buoyancy between the LFC and LOC defines the convective available potential energy (CAPE);Although condensation starts to occur in the parcel at cloud base, this condensation often forms in the negatively buoyant overshoot of a ML thermal into its capping inversion. Latent heat is released as the parcel rises. If the parcel has sufficient inertia to overshoot high enough, its potential temperature might rise to the point where it is again warmer than the environment. This point, where the cloudy parcel is first positively buoyant, is called the level of free convection (LFC). A cloud that reaches its LFC is classified as an active cloud. The cloud parcel continues to rise due to its own buoyancy while ev or sv is positive. The cloud temperature can be estimated by following a moist adiabat. Eventually, the rising parcel reaches a level where it is cooler than the environment. This point is called the limit of convection. The cloud parcel might overshoot beyond the limit of convection because of its inertia, eventually stopping its overshoot at cloud top. A variety of available potential energies can be defined from cloud properties. The vertical integral of the parcel buoyancy between the LFC and LOC defines the convective available potential energy (CAPE)lwc;(13.1.5a)and is indicated as the shaded area in Fig 13.3. A velocity scale, weAPE, can be defined