BOUNDARY CONDmONS 263where the subscript G denotes on the ground or sea surface. The parameters CH and CE are the bulk transfer coefficients for heat and moisture, respectively, although sometimes CH is called the Stanton number. For statically neutral conditions (subscript N), it is often assumed that;Typical values range from lxlO3 to 5xlO3 (dimensionless). There is a subtle, but important, difference between subscripts G and s  Subscript s represents values in the air near the surface, where near often means at 2 m or 10 m above the surface. The subscript a means the value in the top 1 mm of the soil or sea surface, or sometimes a skin value representative of just the top few molecules of the soil or sea. One problem is how to specify the surface value, eo, or la. Over the sea, it is often assumed that the air in the micro layer is saturated. The saturation specific humidity is a well known function of temperature (Wallace and Hobbs, 1977). Over land, the soil surface temperature and moisture depend on many factors, and are not easily approximated. One approach is to include forecast equations for the temperature and moisture for a thin layer of soil, such as is described in more detail in section 7.6. Another approach, for temperature, is to radiometrically measure the surface skin temperature (Huband and Monteith, 1986).;Dependence on Surface Roughness. Rougher surfaces are likely to cause more intense turbulence, which increases the drag and transfer rates across the surface. Over land, drag of the air can be caused by frictional skin drag, form drag, and wave drag. Frictional skin drag is related to the molecular diffusion of momentum across an interface, and applies equally well to transport of heat and scalars. Usually, drag associated with small size obstacles such as blades of grass or gravel or sometimes even trees are parameterized as skin drag in the atmosphere. Form drag is related to the dynamic pressure differential formed by the deceleration of air as it hits an obstacle such as a mountain or a building. There is no analogy to form drag for heat or scalars. Wave drag is related to the transport of momentum by buoyancy (gravity) waves in statically stable air. Mountain waves are a classic example. Since waves and pressure fluctuations can transport momentum but not heat or scalars, we see that the momentum drag coefficient could be significantly different in magnitude from the bulk transfer coefficients for heat or moisture. Thus, one should be cautious when equating transfer coefficients. When averaged over large horizontal regions such as continents, all drag processes can contribute. Table 72 indicates the magnitude such drag coefficients.