Active Clouds. These clouds are also triggered by ML thennals, but at some point a portion of the updraft reaches its LFC and the clouds become positively buoyant. The rising updraft then induces its own pressure perturbations that affect its evolution and draw more air in through its cloud base. The lifetime of this cloud is now controlled by its cloud dynamics and its interaction with the environment. It may persist longer than the ML thermal that fIrst triggered it. These clouds can vent ML air out into the FA. Their vertical dimensions are often on the same order, or slighdy larger than their horizontal dimensions. Morphologically, they are the cumulus mediocris.;Passive Clouds. When active clouds cease withdrawing air from the ML, we classify them as dynamically passive. The tops of the passive clouds might still be positively buoyant and may even be growing, but they no longer are venting ML air. The bottoms of these clouds are diffuse as the droplets evaporate and mix with the environment. As a result, the original cloud base disappears, leaving the remaining portion of the cloud totally above the ML and EZ where it is not dynamically interactive with the ML.;13.4.2 Feedback from the Clouds to the Mixed Layer;Radiative Feedback. All classes of boundarylayer clouds (crCL) shade the surface. Over a land surface this results in negative feedback, because less solar heating of the ground will trigger fewer or weaker thermals and will cause the ML to grow more slowly, resulting in fewer new cumulus clouds being triggered. Thus on days over land where solar heating is the primary driving force for free convection (rather than cold air advection, ground thermal inertia, or forced mechanical convection), fairweather cumulus clouds will tend to reach an equilibrium cloud cover that is scattered (0.1 to 0.5 coverage) or broken (0.6 to 0.9), but not overcast.;Dynamic Feedback. Active clouds withdraw some of the ML air, causing the ML to grow more slowly or even not grow at all. This negative feedback limits the number of new thermals that can penetrate high enough to trigger new active clouds. The continuity equation (11.2.2b) describes how active clouds can modify ML growth. Given typical values of entrainment velocity, subsidence, cloud base average updraft velocity, and ML growth rate (0.05, 0.01, 1.0, and 0.02 mis, respectively), (11.2.2b) yields an active cloud cover of 2. Thus, active clouds rarely cover more than a few percent of the area, even when there are many forced and passive clouds present. BrUmmer and Wendel (1987) observed that these few active clouds have such vigorous vertical motion that their vertical heat and momentum fluxes can be on the order of 100 Wm2 and I Nm2, respectively. When horizontally averaged over the remainder of the cloud layer, these few clouds were responsible for most of the vertical transport.