Discussion. This scenario frequently occurs in daytime mixed layers. Thus, given an adiabatic ML initially, the potential temperature proflle a bit later will also be adiabatic because air at all heights is warming at the same rate. In fact, anytime the heat flux changes linearly with height, the shape 0 the potential temperature profile will be preserved while it warms, regardless 0 its initial shape.;Problem 2. If a horizontal wind of 10 ms is advecting drier air into a region, where the horizontal moisture gradient is (5 gwatekgair)lOO lan, then what vertical gradient of turbulent moisture flux in the BL is required to maintain a steadystate specific humidity? Assume all the water is in vapor form, and that there is no body source of moisture. Be sure to state any additional assumptions you make.;Solution. A steadystate situation is defined as one where there are no local changes of a variable with time (i.e., where d( )!dt  0). Choose the xaxis to be aligned with the mean wind direction for simplicity. Equation (3.5.3e) becomes;Discussion. A gradient of this magnitude corresponds to a 0.5 (gkg)(ms) decrease;Discussion. A gradient of this magnitude corresponds to a 0.5 (gkg)(ms) decreaseof w q , over a vertical distance of I lan. Also, we see from both sample problems that a;of w q , over a vertical distance of I lan. Also, we see from both sample problems that adecrease of turbulence flux with height (i.e., flux convergence) results in an increase of the mean variable (e.g., temperature or moisture) with time. For the latter example, the potential increase was balanced by advective drying.;Problem 3 Assume a turbulent BL at a latitude of 44N, where the mean wind is 2 ms slower than geostrophic (Le., the wind is subgeostrophic). Neglect subsidence, and assume horizontal homogeneity and steady state. a) Find the Reynolds stress divergence necessary to support this velocity deficit. b) If that stress divergence was related to molecular viscosity instead of turbulence, what curvature in the mean wind profile would be necessary?