262 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYwhere M is the mean horizontal wind magnitude at height z above the surface, Co is the bulk transfer coefficient for the same height, and we is the entrainment velocity into the top of the mixed layer. At the surface, the wind speed is zero, while at some height just above the surface there is a nonzero wind. The resulting shear is assumed to generate turbulence which suppons the transpon. This parameterization obviously fails in calm wind conditions. The entrainment zone is an interface between the free atmosphere and the mixed layer. Entrainment brings air into the mixed layer from the free atmosphere, and creates a flux just within the top of the mixed layer. Just above the entrainment zone, however, the flux is often near zero, and is unrelated to the entrainment flux just below the entrainment zone interface (see Chapter II for more details).;7.4.1 Surface Fluxes  Drag and Bulk Transfer Methods;Definitions. In 1916, GJ. Taylor suggested that a velocity squared law might be used to describe the drag of the atmosphere against the earths surface. Using u.2 as a measure of surface stress associatoo with drag, we find that;Definitions. In 1916, GJ. Taylor suggested that a velocity squared law might be used to describe the drag of the atmosphere against the earths surface. Using u.2 as a measure of surface stress associatoo with drag, we find thatu.2  CD M2 (7.4.1a);For momentum transfer, CD is called the drag coefficient. Generically it is still a bulk transfer coefficient, and sometimes is written as CM in the literature. The individual components of surface stress are correspondingly given by the drag laws;At frrst glance (7.4.lb) does not appear to follow the form of (7.4a), but it turns out that;At frrst glance (7.4.lb) does not appear to follow the form of (7.4a), but it turns out thatthe proper form is followed because the wind speed below the surface is zero. Thus, V; V  0  V.ir  Vground  V10P  Vbollom The three factors Co, M and V should all correspond to the same height above the surface. Often 10 m is assumed as the standard height, if not otherwise specified. Similar expressions can be used to parameterize surface heat and moisture fluxes