A peculiar problem arises in the use of Rf  namely. we can calculate its value only forturbulent flow because it contains factors involving turbulent correlations like we . In y other words. we can use it to determine whether turbulent flow will become laminar. but not whether laminar flow will become turbulent. Using the reasoning of section 2.7 and Fig 2.13. it is logical to suggest that the value;turbulent flow because it contains factors involving turbulent correlations like we . In y other words. we can use it to determine whether turbulent flow will become laminar. but not whether laminar flow will become turbulent. Using the reasoning of section 2.7 and Fig 2.13. it is logical to suggest that the valueof the turbulent correlation  w e y , might be proportional to the lapse rate iJe yfiJz.;Similarly. we might suggest that u w  is proportional to iJUiJz. and that v w  is;Similarly. we might suggest that u w  is proportional to iJUiJz. and that v w  isproportional to iJYdz. These arguments form the basis of a theorylknown as Ktheory or eddy diffusivity theory. which will be discussed in much more detail in chapter 6. For now. we will just assume that the proportionalities are possible. and substitute those in (5.6.1b) to give a new ratio called the gradient Richardson number. Ri ;When investigators refer to a Richardson number without specifying which one. they usually mean the gradient Richardson number. Theoretical and laboratory research suggest that laminar flow becomes unstable to KHwave formation and the ONSET of turbulence when Ri is smaller than the critical Richardson number. Re. Another value, RT indicates the termination of turbulence. The dynamic stability criteria can be stated as follows Laminar flow becomes turbulent when Ri  Rc. Turbulent flow becomes laminar when Ri  RT Although there is still some debate on the correct values of Rc and RT it appears that Rc  0.21 to 0.25 and RT  1.0 work fairly well. Thus. there appears to be a hysteresis effect because RT is greater than Re. One hypothesis for the apparent hysteresis is as follows. Two conditions are needed for turbulence instability. and some trigger mechanism. Suppose that dynamic instability occurs whenever Ri  RT. If one trigger mechanism is existing turbulence in or adjacent to the unstable fluid. then turbulence can continue as long as Ri  RT because of the presence of both the instability and the trigger. If KH waves are another trigger mechanism. then in the absence of existing turbulence one finds that Ri must get well