456 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYwhere r is the local value of d9dz just above the top of the ML, and where 9 is the potential temperature vertically averaged over the ML depth. When this is combined with (l1.2.1b), the result is a prognostic equation for;where r is the local value of d9dz just above the top of the ML, and where 9 is the potential temperature vertically averaged over the ML depth. When this is combined with (l1.2.1b), the result is a prognostic equation forwe  we S Zi (11.2.2e);For the special case of constant heat flux with time, and constant lapse rate with height, (l1.2.2e) can be integrated to yield;2 2  12 wes e Zj  zio  w Zi  (t  to) (ll.2.2f);2 2  12 wes e Zj  zio  w Zi  (t  to) (ll.2.2f)which shows that the ML depth could increase with the square root of time for this special case. Sometimes, a complex sounding can be broken into segments and integrated piece by piece using (11.2.2f). If one assumes that heating from the surface is the sole source of warming of the ML, then the heat flux at  is assumed to be zero in (11.2.2ef). This special case is called encroachment, because the top of the ML is never higher than the intercept of the ML potential temperature with the early morning sounding. The ML encroaches upward only as the ML warms. Even though the thermodynamic approach neglects turbulent entrainment, it explains roughly 8090 of the observed variation of the ML depth (Stull, 1976 Boers, et aI., 1984). One reason is that if turbulent entrainment gets ahead of the thennodynamic support, the temperature inversion at the top of the ML will intensify and limit tJte entrainment rate (see Section 11.4).;which shows that the ML depth could increase with the square root of time for this special case. Sometimes, a complex sounding can be broken into segments and integrated piece by piece using (11.2.2f). If one assumes that heating from the surface is the sole source of warming of the ML, then the heat flux at  is assumed to be zero in (11.2.2ef). This special case is called encroachment, because the top of the ML is never higher than the intercept of the ML potential temperature with the early morning sounding. The ML encroaches upward only as the ML warms. Even though the thermodynamic approach neglects turbulent entrainment, it explains roughly 8090 of the observed variation of the ML depth (Stull, 1976 Boers, et aI., 1984). One reason is that if turbulent entrainment gets ahead of the thennodynamic support, the temperature inversion at the top of the ML will intensify and limit tJte entrainment rate (see Section 11.4).n.2.3 Models;Bulk Model. The simplest representation of the ML assumes that mean variables are constant with height within the ML, with a sharp discontinuity between the ML and the FA. This idealization is sometimes called a bulk or slab model because the ML is represented by a uniform slab of air, or a jump model because of the discontinuity or step across the top. Another name used in the literature is integral model. Fluxes within the ML are assumed to be linear with height, with a jump at the top (Fig 11.13). The entrainment zone is assumed to be infinitesimally thin. Since the actual v,alues of mean variables in the ML are identically equal to their vertical averages, the conservation equations assume a particularly simple form