Measurements A basic rule of discrete data analysis is that at least two data points are required per period or wavelength in order to resolve a wave. Since Fourier analysis involves splitting arbitrary signals into waves. the two data point requirement also holds for our arbitrary signals. For example. if we have a total of N data points. then the highest frequency that can be resolved in our Fourier transform is nf  N2. which is called the Nyquist frequency. These requirements apply to measurements namely. if a wave period as small as 0.1 s must be measured while flying in an aircraft, then the physical signal must be digitized at least once every 0.05 s. Similarly. if a wavelength as small as 1 m must be measured. then the physical signal must be digitized at least once every 0.5 m. What happens when there is a physical signal of high frequency that is not sampled or digitized frequently enough to resolve the signal? The answer is that the true high frequency signal is folded or aliased into a lower frequency. creating an erroneous and deceiving Fourier transform. This is illustrated with aid of the example in the previous subsection. Look at the nrst graph in Fig 8.5. where the cosine waves for n  2, 4 and 6 are plotted. Since we started with N  8 data points. we can anticipate a Nyquist frequency of nf  4. Namely, the shortest period wave that can be resolved is one that has 4 cycles per period!P. Thus, the curve corresponding to n  6 is greater than the Nyquist frequency, and is likely to cause problems. Look closely at the curves for n  2 and n  6. They coincide exactly at the points k  0, I, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. In other words, if there were a true signal of n  6 that was sampled only at the integer k values listed above, then anyone connecting the resulting plotted points with a line or curve would nnd that they have drawn a wave with n  2 cycles per period. In other words, the n  6 signal was folded into the n  2 frequency. Similarly. looking at the third graph in Fig 8.5. the n  7 sine waves are folded into an n  I sine wave. In general, if nh represents a frequency higher than the Nyquist frequency, then the signal or amplitude of that wave will be folded down to a frequency of n  N  nh. where it will be added to any true amplitude that already exists at n. Since this folding or reflection occurs around the Nyquist frequency, it is also known as the folding frequency. Such folding is readily apparent when wave amplitudes are plotted as spectral energies (to be discussed in Section 8.6). As illustrated in Fig 8.6, any nonzero wave amplitudes and spectral energies in the true signal at frequencies higher than the Nyquist frequency are folded back and added to the energies of the true signal at the lower frequencies, yielding an aliased (and erroneous) spectrum. Aliasing is a problem whenever two conditions both occur (I) the sensor can respond to frequencies higher than the rate that the sensor is sampled and (2) the true signal has frequencies higher than the sampling rate. As we already know, there is a spectrum of wavenumbers and frequencies of turbulence in the atmosphere, some of which are very high. All measurement systems have limitations on the rate at which they can sample.