TOOLS PART 2. TIME SERIES 313very much like the correlation coefficient squared, r2. For frequencies greater than the Nyquist frequency the IFA(n)12 values are identically equal to those at the corresponding folded lower frequencies, because the Fourier transforms of high frequencies are the same as those for the low frequencies, except for a sign change in front of the imaginary part. Also, since frequencies higher than the Nyquist cannot be resolved anyway, the IFA(n)12 values at high frequencies should be folded back and added to those at the lower frequencies. Thus, discrete spectral intensity (or energy), EA (n). is defined as;EA(n)  2.IFA(n)12, for n  I to nr, with N  odd. For N  even, EA(n)  2.IFA(n)12 is;EA(n)  2.IFA(n)12, for n  I to nr, with N  odd. For N  even, EA(n)  2.IFA(n)12 isused for frequencies from n  1 to (nr 1), along with EA(n)  IF A (n)12 (not times 2) at the Nyquist frequency. This presentation is called the discrete variance (or energy) spectrum. It can be used for any variable such as temperature, velocity, or humidity to separate the total variance into the components, EA(n), related to different frequencies. For variables such as temperature and humidity, however, we must not associate the resulting spectrum with concepts of eddy motions, because variations in these variables can persist in the atmosphere in nonturbulent flow as the footprints of formerly active turbulence. The variance of velocity fluctuations, u, has the same units as turbulence kinetic energy per unit mass. Thus, the spectrum of velocity is called the discrete energy spectrum. As defined above, the name energy spectrum is sometimes used for all variance spectra.;Although this chapter has dealt with discrete spectra, a number of theoretical concepts such as the spectral similarity discussed in the next chapter use continuous spectral representations. Namely, instead of summing the discrete spectral energy over all n to yield the total variance, these theories assume that there is a spectral energy density, SA(n) that can be integrated over n to yield the total variance.