Fig. 4.15 (al Modeled profiles of turbulent flux of uwind during Night 3334, Wangara symbols same as In Fig. 4.3(a). (b) Range of momentum flux normalized by the friction velocity versus height scaled by boundary layer depth. Based on data from Andre, et al. (1978), and Caughey et al. (1979).;The only exception is the momentum variance equation (4.3.1g), where 2e without a subscript is usually used.;Case Study Examples. Fig 4.13 shows vertical profiles of u w  and v w  for;Case Study Examples. Fig 4.13 shows vertical profiles of u w  and v w  fordaytime cases, while Fig 4.14 shows a neutral example. Nighttime fluxes (Fig 4.15) are often much weaker than daytime fluxes, except near the ground where wind shear at night can maintain the turbulence intensity. The surface values of these fluxes are almost always of the sign appropriate for bringing momentum down from aloft. For midlatitude situations with predominantly westerly flow that increases speed with height in the surface;daytime cases, while Fig 4.14 shows a neutral example. Nighttime fluxes (Fig 4.15) are often much weaker than daytime fluxes, except near the ground where wind shear at night can maintain the turbulence intensity. The surface values of these fluxes are almost always of the sign appropriate for bringing momentum down from aloft. For midlatitude situations with predominantly westerly flow that increases speed with height in the surfacelayer (Le., U is positive), we find that the momentum flux (u w ) is negative near the;layer (Le., U is positive), we find that the momentum flux (u w ) is negative near theground. In Fig 4.15a, the surface flux is positive because the mean surface wind in from;ground. In Fig 4.15a, the surface flux is positive because the mean surface wind in fromthe east (i.e., U is negative). Fig 4.16 shows the contribution of many of the terms in (4.4.1b) to the overall;the east (i.e., U is negative). Fig 4.16 shows the contribution of many of the terms in (4.4.1b) to the overallbudgets of u w  (eastward momentum flux budget) and v w  (northward momentum flux;budgets of u w  (eastward momentum flux budget) and v w  (northward momentum fluxbudget). Again, steady state is assumed and mean advection is neglected. The resulting values of terms at anyone height should thus sum to zero. Large values of many of the terms are observed both at the top and the bottom of the ML, where the strongest mean wind shears are found.