432 BOUNDARY LAYER NffITEOROLOGYsensor. Needless to say, a number of simplifying assumptions (e.g., steady state, anelastic, isotropic, etc.) must be made. Wilczak and Businger (1984) used the momentum equations along with assumptions of largeeddy ramp structures, stationarity, homogeneity, Boussinesq, and others to calculate pressure perturbations, using only temperature and velocity measurements from the BAO tower.;We have already described a variety of similarity methods, including dissipation rate estimation using spectral similarity in the inertial subrange, and the BusingerDyer flux profile similarity. Many other similarity relationships exist between various boundary layer variables that can be employed to solve for unknowns.  For example, we know the similarity shape for vertical velo,city variance as a function;We have already described a variety of similarity methods, including dissipation rate estimation using spectral similarity in the inertial subrange, and the BusingerDyer flux profile similarity. Many other similarity relationships exist between various boundary layer variables that can be employed to solve for unknowns.  For example, we know the similarity shape for vertical velo,city variance as a functionof scaled height in the mixed layer (9.6.3c) w,2w.2  1.8 (ZZi)23 (1  0.8 Zzi)2.;We could measure w,2 at any height in the mixed layer, and if we also know the mixedlayer depth Z, then we can solve for the surface buoyancy flux w6 because it appears v s in the w. scaling velocity. Its hard to believe, but by making velocity measurements 1 km above the surface we can infer surface buoyancy flux, without even measuring temperature. An advantage is that a large number of similarity relations exist, allowing a large variety of variables to be estimated this way. The disadvantage is that the similarity approach is empirical, based on best fits of arbitrary curves to previously measured data rather than being based on conservation equations derived from first principles.;Problem Given the following measurements in the surface layerwT  0.2 K mis, w q ,  0.1 (g!kg)(mls), T  300 K,  Q. s Oa  546 Wm2,;9  2 K, q  0.818 gkg, D  5 mis, cv2  0.4 m43 S2, and;S(lC)  0.015 m3 s2 at lC  628 mol. Find