Compared to the other scales of meteorological motions, turbulence is on the small end. Figure 1.15 shows a classification scheme for meteorological phenomena as a function of their time and space scales. Phenomena such as turbulence with space scales smaller than about 3 km and with time scales shorter than about I h are classified as microscale. Micrometeorology is the study of such smallscale phenomena. It is evident that the study of the boundary layer involves the study of microscale processes. For this reason, boundary layer meteorology and micrometeorology are virtually synonymous. Since many of the early micrometeorological measurements were made with sensors on short stands and towers, micrometeorology was often associated with surfacelayer phenomena. Regardless of what you call it, the smallscale phenomena being studied here are so transient in nature that the detenninistic description and forecasting of each individual eddy is virtually impossible. As a result, micrometeorologists have developed three primary avenues for exploring their subject  stochastic methods  similarity theory  phenomenological classifications. Stochastic methods deal with the average statistical effects of the eddies. Similarity theory involves the apparent commonbehavior exhibited by many empiricallyobserved phenomena, when properly scaled. In the phenomenological methods, the largest size structures such as thermals are classified and sometimes approached in a partially detenninistic manner. Micrometeorology has always relied heavily on field experiments to learn more about the boundary layer. Unfortunately, the large variety of scales involved and the tremendous variability in the vertical require a large array of sensors including airborne platforms and remote sensors. The relatively large costs have limited the scope of many field experiments. Only a few generalpurpose, largescale boundary layer experiments have been conducted. Alternative studies have used numerical and laboratory simulations. Much of the turbulence work has been performed in laboratory tanks, usually using liquids such as water as the working medium. Although there have been many successful laboratory studies of smallscale turbulence, there have been only a few simulations of larger phenomena such as thermals. Wind tunnel studies have been used to observe the flow of neutral boundary layers over complex terrain and buildings, although the difficulty of stratifying the air has meant that typical daytime and nighttime boundary layers could not be adequately simulated.