theory. Recall from Chapter 6 that the momentum flux in the surface layer is u w  k2 z2 lauazl auaz. But since the momentum flux is approximately constant with;k2 z2 lauazl auaz. But since the momentum flux is approximately constant withheight in the surface layer, uw(z)  uw(zO)  u.2. Substituting this into the mixing;height in the surface layer, uw(z)  uw(zO)  u.2. Substituting this into the mixinglength expression and taking the square root of the whole equation gives;When this is integrated over height from z  Zo (where MO) to any height z, we again arrive at (9.7.lb). This derivation is more sound than that of Buckingham Pi, because it predicts a log wind profile theoretically, without resorting to empirical arguments. If we divide both sides of (9.7.1c) by u.(kz), we find that the dimensionless;When this is integrated over height from z  Zo (where MO) to any height z, we again arrive at (9.7.lb). This derivation is more sound than that of Buckingham Pi, because it predicts a log wind profile theoretically, without resorting to empirical arguments. If we divide both sides of (9.7.1c) by u.(kz), we find that the dimensionlesswind shear (PM, see Chapter 5 or Appendix A) is equal to unity in the neutral surface layer;This result was previously listed as (9.S.lc). Equations (9.4.lc) and (9.6.le) also approach the above expression in the neutral limit of (zlL) approaching zero. In essence, each of these equations describes a log wind proflle.;The aerodynamic roughness length, zo is defined as the height where the wind speed becomes zero. The word aerodynamic comes about because the only true determination of this parameter is from measurements of the wind speed at various heights. Given observations of wind speed at two or more heights, it is easy to solve for Zo and u. . Graphically, we can easily find Zo by extrapolating the straight line drawn through the wind speed measurements on a semilog graph (see Fig 9.5) to the height;The aerodynamic roughness length, zo is defined as the height where the wind speed becomes zero. The word aerodynamic comes about because the only true determination of this parameter is from measurements of the wind speed at various heights. Given observations of wind speed at two or more heights, it is easy to solve for Zo and u. . Graphically, we can easily find Zo by extrapolating the straight line drawn through the wind speed measurements on a semilog graph (see Fig 9.5) to the heightwhere M  0 (i.e .. extrapolate the line towards the ordinate axis).