Part of the excitement of boundarylayer meteorology is the challenge in tudying and understanding turbulent flow  one of the unsolved problems of classical physics. Additional excitement stems from the rich diversity of topics and research methods that we collect under the umbrella of boundarylayer meteorology. That we live our lives within the boundary layer makes it a subject that touches us, and allows us to touch it. Ive tried to capture some of the excitement, challenges and diversity within this book. I wrote this book with a variety of goals in mind. First and foremost, this book is designed as a textbook. Fundamental concepts and mathematics are presented prior to their use, physical interpretations of equation tenns are given, sample data is shown, examples are solved, and exercises are included. Second, the book is organized as a reference, with tables of parameterizations, procedures, field experiments, useful constants, and graphs of various phenomena in a variety of conditions. Third, the last several chapters are presented as a literature review of the current ideas and methods in boundary layer meteorology. It is assumed that this book will be used at the beginning graduate level for students with an undergraduate background in meteorology. However, a diversity in the background of the readers is anticipated. Those with a strong mathematical background can skip portions of Chapter 2 on statistics, and those with experience with time series can skip Chapter 8. These two mathematics chapters were separated to offer the reader a chance to apply the first dose of statistics to boundary layer applications before delving back into more math. Some students might have had a course on geophysical turbulence or statistical fluid mechanics, and .can skim through the fllst 5 chapters to get to the boundarylayer applications. By excluding a few chapters, instructors can easily fit the remaining material into a onesemester course. With supplemental readings, the book can serve as a twosemester sequence in atmospheric turbulence and boundarylayer meteorology. Notational diversity proved to be the greatest difficulty. Each subdiscipline appeared to have its own set of notation, which often conflicted with the notation of other subdisciplines. To use the published notation would have lead to confusion. I was therefore forced to select a consistent set of notation to use throughout the book. In most cases Ive tried to retain the notation most frequently used in the literature, or to add subscripts or make logical extensions to existing notation. In other cases, I had to depart from previously published notation. Readers are referred to Appendix B for a comprehensive list of notation.;Part of the excitement of boundarylayer meteorology is the challenge in tudying and understanding turbulent flow  one of the unsolved problems of classical physics. Additional excitement stems from the rich diversity of topics and research methods that we collect under the umbrella of boundarylayer meteorology. That we live our lives within the boundary layer makes it a subject that touches us, and allows us to touch it. Ive tried to capture some of the excitement, challenges and diversity within this book. I wrote this book with a variety of goals in mind. First and foremost, this book is designed as a textbook. Fundamental concepts and mathematics are presented prior to their use, physical interpretations of equation tenns are given, sample data is shown, examples are solved, and exercises are included. Second, the book is organized as a reference, with tables of parameterizations, procedures, field experiments, useful constants, and graphs of various phenomena in a variety of conditions. Third, the last several chapters are presented as a literature review of the current ideas and methods in boundary layer meteorology. It is assumed that this book will be used at the beginning graduate level for students with an undergraduate background in meteorology. However, a diversity in the background of the readers is anticipated. Those with a strong mathematical background can skip portions of Chapter 2 on statistics, and those with experience with time series can skip Chapter 8. These two mathematics chapters were separated to offer the reader a chance to apply the first dose of statistics to boundary layer applications before delving back into more math. Some students might have had a course on geophysical turbulence or statistical fluid mechanics, and .can skim through the fllst 5 chapters to get to the boundarylayer applications. By excluding a few chapters, instructors can easily fit the remaining material into a onesemester course. With supplemental readings, the book can serve as a twosemester sequence in atmospheric turbulence and boundarylayer meteorology. Notational diversity proved to be the greatest difficulty. Each subdiscipline appeared to have its own set of notation, which often conflicted with the notation of other subdisciplines. To use the published notation would have lead to confusion. I was therefore forced to select a consistent set of notation to use throughout the book. In most cases Ive tried to retain the notation most frequently used in the literature, or to add subscripts or make logical extensions to existing notation. In other cases, I had to depart from previously published notation. Readers are referred to Appendix B for a comprehensive list of notation.xi