Fig 14.14 shows the variety of flows that are possible for different Froude numbers, for the special case of an isolated hill (Hunt, 1980). For strongly stable environments with light winds (i.e., Fr 0.1 ), air would rather flow around the hill than over it (Fig 14.14a). Directly upwind of the hill, some of the air is blocked by the hill and becomes stagnant. . The combination of the blocked air and the hill acts like a larger, more streamlined obstacle, around which the remaining air must flow. For slightly faster winds or weaker stability (i.e., Fr  0.4 ), some of the air flows over the top of the hill, while air at lower altitudes separates to flow around the hill (Fig 14. 14b). Air that flows over the top has a natural wavelength much smaller than the size of the hill, and is perturbed by the hill to form lee waves. This leewave separation from the hill top is above the nonoscillating air that flows around the hill. For a column of air (air depth  hill height) approaching the center of the hill, the fraction of the column that flows over the top is approximately equal to Fr;(14.2.3b)where zLW is the depth of the column flowing over the hill that forms lee waves, and Zhill is the total depth of the column of air (equal to the height of the hill). At a Froude number of 1.0, the stability is weaker and the winds are stronger, causing the natural wavelength of the air to match the size of the hill (Fig 14.14c). Large amplitude lee waves or mountain waves are formed by such a natural resonance, with the possibility of rotor circulations near the ground under the wave crests. For this case, the air at the surface stagnates at periodic intervals downwind of the hill, and reverse flow can occur at the surface under the rotors. If sufficient moisture is present, standing lenticular clouds can form along the crests of the waves, and rotor clouds can form in the updraft portion of the rotor circulations.;Fig. 14.15 Wave draQ, Co, as a function of Froude number, Fr. (After Hunt, 1978 and Sykes, 1978).