TOOLS PART 1. STATISTICS 73contribution of various size eddies to the total turbulence kinetic energy when answering this question. b) If the mean wind speed at anemometer height was 5 mis, then reanswer part a) in terms of a wavenumber spectrum rather than a frequency spectrum. 12) For selected operational weather forecast models, determine whether the grid spacing (for finitedifference models) or the smallest wavelength (for spectral models) falls within the spectral gap. Find out how the subgridscale motions (turbulence) are parameterized in those models. (Hint The instructor should select one or two current models for this project. It involves outside reading on the part of the students.) 13) When might the ergodic asspmption fail for boundary layer studies? 14) Turbulence is usually anisotropic, inhomogeneous, and non stationary in the boundary layer, although we often limit our studies to situations where one or more of these special cases are approximately valid. Comment on the differenc in meaning between the words isotropic, homogeneous, and stationary. Can turbulence be homogeneous but anisotropic? Can turbulence be isotropic but inhomogeneous? How are homogeniety and stationarity related? 15) What would be the dimensions of kinematic pressure flux? Of kinematic vorticity flux? 16) The solar constant is about 1380. Wm2. Rewrite this in kinematic units. 17) What is the difference between dUj  dXj and dUk  dXk ? 18) If dUk  dXk  0 (valid for incompressible flow), then write the resulting equation for;contribution of various size eddies to the total turbulence kinetic energy when answering this question. b) If the mean wind speed at anemometer height was 5 mis, then reanswer part a) in terms of a wavenumber spectrum rather than a frequency spectrum. 12) For selected operational weather forecast models, determine whether the grid spacing (for finitedifference models) or the smallest wavelength (for spectral models) falls within the spectral gap. Find out how the subgridscale motions (turbulence) are parameterized in those models. (Hint The instructor should select one or two current models for this project. It involves outside reading on the part of the students.) 13) When might the ergodic asspmption fail for boundary layer studies? 14) Turbulence is usually anisotropic, inhomogeneous, and non stationary in the boundary layer, although we often limit our studies to situations where one or more of these special cases are approximately valid. Comment on the differenc in meaning between the words isotropic, homogeneous, and stationary. Can turbulence be homogeneous but anisotropic? Can turbulence be isotropic but inhomogeneous? How are homogeniety and stationarity related? 15) What would be the dimensions of kinematic pressure flux? Of kinematic vorticity flux? 16) The solar constant is about 1380. Wm2. Rewrite this in kinematic units. 17) What is the difference between dUj  dXj and dUk  dXk ? 18) If dUk  dXk  0 (valid for incompressible flow), then write the resulting equation fordtij  dXj in the simplest form possible. Hint, use what you learned from question (17) .J 19) Given the typical value for kinematic viscosity from section 2.9, find what value of shear is necessary to make the viscous shear stress as large as the previously quoted typical value of Reynolds stress. Could such a shear really be found within eddies? If so, what size eddies? (Hint, assume the viscous shear stress is equal to the viscosity times the shear).;21) Suppose that on the planet Krypton turbulent motions are affected by a strange form of viscosity that dissipates turbulent energy in only the venical direction. How would the average turbulence kinetic energy differ from that found on earth? 22) How, if at all, are terms A and 8 below related to each other. Answer with equations or words.;23) Given the term U d(y2)  dX ,which represents the Uadvection of the Y component of total kinetic energy. Expand the U and Y variables into mean and turbulent parts, Reynolds average, and simplify as much as possible.