354 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOOYnumber, independent of the pipe roughness. Fourth, this roughness independence fails when some roughness Reynolds number (given by 1t4) is reached. Fifth, at even larger Reynolds number, the stress is a constant depending only on relative roughness and not on the Reynolds number itself. This last observation is of important consequence for the atmosphere. As previously discussed, the Reynolds number for the atmosphere is very large, on the order of 106 to 108, even within the boundary layer. Fig 9.2 shows us that large Reynolds number flow is independent of the Reynolds number! Hence, we can usually ignore molecular viscosity and the associated Reynolds number in descriptions of the boundary layer. However, for the very smallest size eddies and in the very thin microlayer near the surface, molecular viscosity continues to be important for TKE dissipation and transport across the surface, respectively.;Within the constraints of Buckingham Pi theory, there is a wide variety of variables that could be chosen as the key variables. Usually, it is better to pick variables that represent forcings on the boundary layer, or variables that reflect aspects of the nonsteady condition of the boundary layer. For example, most surface fluxes represent forcings that are (partially) controlled by external factors. The depth of the boundary layer, as mentioned before, is one important nonsteady condition of the boundary layer.;Experience has shown that some key variables frequently appear in common classes of similarity problems, and hence are known as scaling variables for that class. As you might guess, a large variety of scaling variables have been suggested over the years (sec Table 91). In any dimensional analysis problem, you must select only those scales appropriate to the situation. Recommendations for relevant scales were given in Figs. 5.26 and 5.27. Usually, you should pick only one length scale, one velocity scale, and if needed one temperature scale and one humidity scale to be your key variables. No time scale is usually picked, because a time scale can be formed from the length and velocity scales.;9.3.3 Combining Variables to Make New Scales;Some variables always appear grouped in the same arrangements, allowing us to define new scaling variables based on the combination of variables. For example, we have already encountered the friction velocity and other scales in Section 2.10 for the class of problems relating to the surface layer. In Section 4.2 we discussed the convective velocity and other scales related to the class of mixedlayer problems.