In the absence of a background synoptic flow, the front progresses inland normal to the coastline at speeds of 1 to 5 mls. It can easily reach 20 to 50 krn inland by the end of the day. During the daytime, the seabreeze front is driven partially by the active conversion of available potential energy to kinetic energy. After sunset, the front can continue to progress inland in the form of a gravity or density current similar to the thunderstorm gust front.;In the absence of a background synoptic flow, the front progresses inland normal to the coastline at speeds of 1 to 5 mls. It can easily reach 20 to 50 krn inland by the end of the day. During the daytime, the seabreeze front is driven partially by the active conversion of available potential energy to kinetic energy. After sunset, the front can continue to progress inland in the form of a gravity or density current similar to the thunderstorm gust front.z(m);Idealized sea or lakebreeze circulation. (After Lyons (197S) and Ogawa, et aI., 1986).;Near capes and peninsulas, seabreeze fronts from opposite shores converge and collide during the day, producing stronger upward motion. This phenomena is known to trigger thunderstorms in southern Florida (Pielke, 1974), and is believed to trigger cloud lines and possibly a bore wave in northern Australia (Noonan and Smith, 1986). The seabreeze wind direction at lowlevels often turns under the influence of the Coriolis force and the baroclinicity between land and sea. For example, the winds along the western shore of Lake Michigan blow from east to west in the morning, and gradually rotate to blow from the southeast to northwest (Fig 14.6) by late afternoon (Lyons, 1975). Pollutants emitted into the sea breeze can thus be recirculated back further up the coastline. If the background synoptic flow is in the same direction as the lowlevel seabreeze and there are no major barriers to the flow, then the seabreeze front can progress much further inland (over 100 krn). It has been observed to flow over small mountain ranges such as the coastal range in Oregon (Mahrt, personal communication). Some fronts in England have taken over 10 h to reach 100 krn inland (Simpson, et ai, 1977). Garratt (1985) reported seabreeze fronts occasionally reaching as far inland as 400 krn in Australia. The speed of the front is well approximated by a linear sum of the imposed background wind component perpendicular to the front, and the speed of the front in still air (Pearson, et al., 1983). During opposing synoptic flow, the seabreeze can stall near the shoreline, or can be totally eliminated as the mean wind flows from land to sea. For synoptic flow parallel to the coastline, some observations indicate that the seabreeze front becomes broader and