312 BOUNDARY LAYER MlITEOROLOGYhave canned FFf algorithms that users can access without having to write their own. Some of the early FFf packages were restricted to data sets with N  2m. where m was any integer. This meant that data sets slightly too long were truncated to the proper size. or data sets slightly too short we lengthened by adding bogus data (often zeros or the mean value). Both of these data mutilation tricks are not recommended. Modem FFfs factor the series into a variety of prime numbers in addition to the prime number 2. resulting in very little truncation of the time series. One problem with all discrete Fourier transforms including FFfs. is that the input must consist of equallyspaced data points. No missing data is allowed. If the data set has gaps caused by instrument failures or by spurious data spikes that were removed. then artificial data points must be inserted to fill the gap. One is not allowed simply to close the gap by bringing the remaining pans of the data set together. because this alters the periods or wavelengths present in the original signal. The artificial data points must be chosen with care. otherwise this fudge can destroy an otherwise unbiased data set. Data with significant gaps can be analyzed with periodograrn methods instead (see Section 8.9).;In meteorology we are frequently curious about how much of the variance of a time series is associated with a particular frequency. without regard to the precise phase of the waves. Indeed for turbulence. we anticipate that the original signal is not physically like waves at all. but we still find it useful to break the signal into components of different frequencies that we like to associate with different eddy sizes. The square of the norm of the complex Fourier transform for any frequency n is;Thus. we can interpret IF A (n)12 as the portion of variance explained by waves of frequency n. Notice that the sum over frequencies does not include nO, because IFA(O)I is the mean value and does not contribute any information about the variation of the signal about the mean. To simplify the notation for later use, define G A (n)  IF A (n)12  The;Thus. we can interpret IF A (n)12 as the portion of variance explained by waves of frequency n. Notice that the sum over frequencies does not include nO, because IFA(O)I is the mean value and does not contribute any information about the variation of the signal about the mean. To simplify the notation for later use, define G A (n)  IF A (n)12  Theratio G A (n)  cr A 2 represents the fraction of variance explained by component n, and is