TURBULENCE CLOSURE 229and any size grid spacing (Stull, 1986). No additional numerical constraints are required to achieve this characteristic. To show this, we can employ Gershgorins theorem of linear algebra (Pearson, 1974) that states that the largest modulus (magnitude) of any of the eigenvalues of the transilient matrix is no greater than the largest sum of any row or column of our nonnegative matrix. Because each of our rows and columns sum to one, we know that the largest eigenvalue modulus is no greater than one. This latter condition means that numerical stability is insured. See Haltiner and Williams (1980) for details of this last statement. There is one numerical constraint that is recommended that no eigenvalue of the transilient matrix be negative. It can be shown that a transilient matrix with a negative eigenvalue causes the tracer concentration to oscillate from timestep to timestep. This characteristic is undesirable because the solution depends on the timestep rather than the physics. As a general guideline, transilient matrices with large elements clustered around the crossdiagonal of the matrix rather than around the main diagonal are matrices likely to be timestep dependent.;Turbulent kinematic fluxes are also easy to determine. because the transilient matrixtells us directly about the transport between grid boxes. The kinematic flux w (k) across level k is given by;(6.8.4a)where Az is the grid point spacing, and At is the time step interval for the cij(t,At) matrix.;The level k is defined as the border between grid boxes k and k 1. Thus. although i;The level k is defined as the border between grid boxes k and k 1. Thus. although iis known at the center of a grid box, w   (k) is known at the edge of the grid box. This makes physical sense, because the flux represents the transport between grid boxes. We expect that the flux across any level k should depend on only those eddies that cross that level (Ebert et ai, 1989). When (6.8.4a) is rewritten as (6.8.4b), we see that one of the sums is from 1 to k, while the other is from kl to N. This implies that the source and destination grid boxes of those eddies that contribute to the flux are below and above k, respectively.;is known at the center of a grid box, w   (k) is known at the edge of the grid box. This makes physical sense, because the flux represents the transport between grid boxes. We expect that the flux across any level k should depend on only those eddies that cross that level (Ebert et ai, 1989). When (6.8.4a) is rewritten as (6.8.4b), we see that one of the sums is from 1 to k, while the other is from kl to N. This implies that the source and destination grid boxes of those eddies that contribute to the flux are below and above k, respectively.w(k) (6.8.4b)