426 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYsimulating a stably stratified temperature inversion as is typically observed in the real atmosphere in the early mornings. The bottom of the tank was a metal plate that could be heated to generate convection in the tank. Convection has been induced by other investigators using other techniques such as cooling water below 4C, or introducing denser brines into the top of the tank. Using a variety of dyes and neutrally buoyant oil droplets, they could photogrametrically analyze the evolution, turbulent structure, and dispersive characteristics of the mixed layer. llluminating the tank with thin planes of light allowed cross sections to be photographed, and illuminating the top part of the tank simulated features similar to small cumulus clouds. In situ measurements of temperature and velocity were also made with probes that could be slowly moved through the fluid. This technique was extended to study buoyancy waves and forced convection. Some of their discoveries concerning the entrainment zone and dispersion were later verified in the real atmosphere.;Mechanical Turbulence The simulation of realistic sheardriven turbulent flows in the laboratory has proved to be very difficult. Circular or racetrackshaped annulus tanks are often employed to avoid the accelerationdeceleration problems of a longstraight tank. Regardless of whether the fluid is put into motion by pumps or whether the boundaries are moved relative to the fluid, there appear to be major boundary problems associated with fluid circulating around the annulus (Scranton and Lindberg, 1983 Deardorff and Y oon, 1984). Some of the published results from such sheardriven flows are of questionable qUality. For some ocean mixed layer simulations, mechanical turbulence has been generated in tanks using oscillating grids. These mechanically stir the fluid. Although such stirring might be an approximate representation of the breaking of waves and windinduced mixing at the top of the ocean mixed layer, it is difficult to find an analogy in the atmospheric mixed layer.;Stable Stratification The nonturbulent flow of stably stratified fluid over terrain and around obstacles has been simulated using towing tanks. These are long narrow tanks filled with stably stratified (using salt brine or temperature to vary the density) water, where the mean water flow is zero. A scale model of the terrain or obstacle is then placed upsidedown in the top of the tank and towed along the tanks length, while tracer dies are released from tiny holes in the model. Cameras translating at the same speed as the model record the flow, which then appears as fluid moving past the obstacle when the films are played back. These tanks have been panicularly valuable for pollution dispersion studies.;Wind tunnels have the advantage of using air as the working medium. A disadvantage is that it is difficult to stratify the flow. For neutral stratification, wind tunnels have been used successfully to study dispersion and flow over hills and around obstacles. In