Remembering that CEM is like a conductance for moisture. we see that surfaces with greater water conductivity have a greater latent heat flux and smaller sensible heat flux than less conductive surfaces. Alternately. we can view the parameterization via the concept of a resistance to transfer. Physically. we would expect that surfaceplant systems with less resistance to moisture transport would have greater evaporation. with the resulting reduction in sensible heat flux. For example. the air resistance. ra. to transfer of water vapor away from a;Remembering that CEM is like a conductance for moisture. we see that surfaces with greater water conductivity have a greater latent heat flux and smaller sensible heat flux than less conductive surfaces. Alternately. we can view the parameterization via the concept of a resistance to transfer. Physically. we would expect that surfaceplant systems with less resistance to moisture transport would have greater evaporation. with the resulting reduction in sensible heat flux. For example. the air resistance. ra. to transfer of water vapor away from aplant stomate into the air is just the inverse of the conductance (CEM) introduced earlier;The total resistance of the plant, rp is governed by the movement of water from the ground through the roots up into the plant to the cavity of the stomate where it is finally transpired into the air. We can combine the air and plant resistances to rewrite thecorrection term as Fw  (is at  qair)  (ra  rp). where qair  (X.lXc) qsot  and Xc ;correction term as Fw  (is at  qair)  (ra  rp). where qair  (X.lXc) qsot  and Xc rJ(rar. This expression for Fw is equivalent to the one written earlier. The topic of fluxes across vegetation systems is a complex one that we have barely parameterized above. A more detailed analysis should include factors such as canopy height, vegetation coverage, displacement heights, roughness lengths, plant reflectivity, plant architecture, root zone depth, ground water depth. heat conductivity. soil moisture, and stomatel resistance. These topics are beyond the scope of this book (see Verma, et aI., 1986 Brutsaert, 1985 Mahrt and Ek, 1984 McNaughton and Jarvis, 1983 Deardorff, 1978 Geiger, 1965).;Problem Find QH and QE as a function of time for the same situation as presented in the radiation budget example of section 7.3.3. Compare the results of the PriestleyTaylor and the PenmanMonteith methods. given the typical diurnal cycle in temperature as listed in Table 75. Let the surface pressure be constant at 100 kPa (1000 mb). For the first method, assume that aPT  1.25, with no additional advection term. For the second method;Problem Find QH and QE as a function of time for the same situation as presented in the radiation budget example of section 7.3.3. Compare the results of the PriestleyTaylor and the PenmanMonteith methods. given the typical diurnal cycle in temperature as listed in Table 75. Let the surface pressure be constant at 100 kPa (1000 mb). For the first method, assume that aPT  1.25, with no additional advection term. For the second methodassume that CE  0.002, Xs  0.5, Xc  0.9, and M  5 mls.;Solution As in the radiation example, we will employ spreadsheet software to implement the solution. To fmd the imposed forcing (Qs  Qc), we can use Q from the previous example. but we have not yet discussed parameterizations for Qc. Assume for simplicity that Qa  0.5 Q during nighttime, and Qa  0.1 Q during the daytime (to be discussed in section 7.6.1). The latent heat of vaporization is approximated by a linear