46 BOUNDARY LAYER MEIEOROLOOYwhere e represents an instantaneous turbulence kinetic energy per unit mass. There is an additional portion of the total KE consisting of meanturbulence products, but this disappears upon averaging. Rapid variations in the value of e with time can be expected as we measure faster and slower gusts. By averaging over these instantaneous values, we can define a mean turbulence kinetic energy (IKE) that is more representative of the overall flow;We can immediately see the relationship between TKEm and the definition of variance defined in the last section. It is apparent that statistics will play an important role in our quantification of turbulence. The turbulence kinetic energy is one of the most important quantities used to study the turbulent BL. We have already discussed in Chapter 1 that turbulence can be generated by buoyant thermals and by mechanical eddies. It is suppressed by statically stable lapse rates and dissipated into heat by the effects of molecular viscosity. By writing a budget equation for TKE, we can balance the production terms against the loss terms to detennine whether the BL will become more turbulent, or whether turbulence will decay in the BL. This will be done in Chapter 5. A typical daytime variation of TKE in convective conditions is shown in Fig 2.8. Examples of the vertical profile of TKE for various boundary layers are shown in Fig 2.9. During the daytime, buoyancy allows air parcels to accelerate in the middle of the ML,;We can immediately see the relationship between TKEm and the definition of variance defined in the last section. It is apparent that statistics will play an important role in our quantification of turbulence. The turbulence kinetic energy is one of the most important quantities used to study the turbulent BL. We have already discussed in Chapter 1 that turbulence can be generated by buoyant thermals and by mechanical eddies. It is suppressed by statically stable lapse rates and dissipated into heat by the effects of molecular viscosity. By writing a budget equation for TKE, we can balance the production terms against the loss terms to detennine whether the BL will become more turbulent, or whether turbulence will decay in the BL. This will be done in Chapter 5. A typical daytime variation of TKE in convective conditions is shown in Fig 2.8. Examples of the vertical profile of TKE for various boundary layers are shown in Fig 2.9. During the daytime, buoyancy allows air parcels to accelerate in the middle of the ML,allowing w,2 to be large there and contributing to the total TKE (Fig 2.9a).;  til .. ! E w M I 0 8 10 12 14 16 18 Local Time;Fig. 2.8 Diurnal cycle of TKElm  12 ( u v W,2) measured by aircraft below 300 magi over Tennessee, August 1978. Adapted from Bean and Repoff,1983.