618 BOUNDARYLAYERMETEOROLOOYvary with wind speed. 5) Suppose that the air flowing over two hills is statically stable. The stability is such that the Froude number for the fust hill is Fr  0.5. a) Sketch the flow over the first hill. b) If the second hill is half the width of the fIrst hill, what is its Froude number, and sketch the flow over it, assuming the same stability and wind speed as for the fIrst hill. 6) What is the Froude number, and how is it used? 7) What is an anabatic cumulus cloud? 8) Given a wide valley with ridges on both sides, describe the dispersion of smoke over a full diurnal cycle from two stacks a) One very short stack at the side of the valley floor at the base of the ridge. b) A tall stack (100 m) at the same location as in part (a). 9) If a fully enclosed basin fIlls with cold air during the night, describe the flow across the top of the cold pool of air in the morning. State all your assumptions. 10) If a sea breeze is caused by warm air rising over land surface during the day, then what causes the lowlevel inflow from sea to land? 11) Why is the equation for depth of the internal boundary layer (14.2.1a) not a function of wind speed? 12) Plot the depth of the IBL as a function of distance downwind of a change in roughness, given Zol  10.3 m and zo2  102 m. State your assumptions. 13) Suppose air is flowing from warm land over a cooler lake during the Spring. a)If the wind speed is 7 mls and the lake is 15C cooler than the land surface (290 K), then plot the depth of the stable TIBL as a function of distance from the shore. b) If the same situation occurs in the Fall, except that the land and lake temperatures are reversed, plot the depth of the convective TIBL as a function of distance downwind from the shore. c) Compare the plots from (a) and (b), and explain why they differ. 14) Assume the mean wind speed is 5 mis, the hill width is 200 m, and the vertical potential temperature gradient is 0.02 KIm. a) Calculate the Froude number. b) Above what height does flow separate and flow over the hill. Assume the hill is 100 m high. c) Calculate the amount of speedup at the crest of the hill, and the height above the hill at which this speedup is found. State your assumptions. d) What other factors besides speedup might be important for determining whether a site could be used for wind turbine power generation? 17) Assuming an exponential change of temperature with height in the SBL (see Chapter 12) and a hill of width and height 500 m, calculate and plot the Froude number as a function of height. Sketch a possible flow field for this situation. 18) Given an ambient wind speed of 15 mls and a mountain height of 1000 m, plot a curve of lapse rate vs. depth of the mixed layer that delineates the threshold for the onset of severe downslope windstorms. 19) Describe the nature of the urban boundary layer for your own town.