7) Given the nighttime data of Fig 3.10, estimate the vertical profJle of temperature change associated with the advective contribution between 2100 and 2230 COT. 8) Suppose that the boundary layer warms by 10 C during a 6 h period. If;a) then what is the average value of turbulent heat flux at the earths surface for a 1 kIn thick BL having no heat flux at its top?b) If u.  0.2 mis, then find e. SL. 9) Suppose that;b) If u.  0.2 mis, then find e. SL. 9) Suppose thatuw  (u.  C z)2, vw  0 for all z, DB  5 mls at all heights, Vg  5 mls at;uw  (u.  C z)2, vw  0 for all z, DB  5 mls at all heights, Vg  5 mls atall heights, fc  104 Sl, u.  0.3 mis, and c  0.001 Sl. Find the acceleration of the air in the xdirection at a height of 100 m in the BL,;all heights, fc  104 Sl, u.  0.3 mis, and c  0.001 Sl. Find the acceleration of the air in the xdirection at a height of 100 m in the BL,assuming that initially D  4 mls and V  2 mls at that height;10) Given the term U dV2fr)x ,which represents the advection of mean horizontal vcomponent of kinetic energy. Expand the variables U and V into mean and turbulent parts, Reynolds average, and simplify as much as possible.;12) Expand the following Coriolis term 2 jjk, OJ Uk for the case of iI, in terms oflatitude, velocity, and rotation rate of the earth. Assume that there is no subsidence. 13) Given the profJle of momentum flux,;latitude, velocity, and rotation rate of the earth. Assume that there is no subsidence. 13) Given the profJle of momentum flux,u w  sketched here, sketch a mean;u w  sketched here, sketch a meanwind profJle between zO and Z2zi that could reasonably occur and be consistant with the momentum flux. Assume a slablike mixed layer.  iiYl 14) Let , C be the concentration of hockipuculis bacteria in the air. This contagious bacteria, which sweeps across the northern states each winter, is known to increase as ice forms on the lakes. Researchers at the Institute for Sieve Studies have discovered the following conservation equation for hockipuculis in the air;wind profJle between zO and Z2zi that could reasonably occur and be consistant with the momentum flux. Assume a slablike mixed layer.  iiYl 14) Let , C be the concentration of hockipuculis bacteria in the air. This contagious bacteria, which sweeps across the northern states each winter, is known to increase as ice forms on the lakes. Researchers at the Institute for Sieve Studies have discovered the following conservation equation for hockipuculis in the airdC aC Tte;dC aC Ttewhere a is a constant. Find the conservation equ,ation for C in a turbulent atmosphere. Assume horizontal homogeneity and no subsidence.