TOOLS PART 2. TIME SERIES 315where Eq(n) has units of specific humidity squared, and Sq(n) has units of specific humidity squared per unit frequency. Finally, the discrete spectrum is plotted in Fig 8.8a, and the spectral energy density is plotted in Fig 8.8b.;Discussion. The sum of the spectral energies equals the biased variance of the original signal, ol  5.0. This is always a good check of the FFT for you to perfonn.;8.6.4 Graphical Presentation of Atmospheric Spectra;A wide range of intensities are present in atmospheric turbulence spectra over an even larger range of frequencies. Atmospheric turbulence spectral energies characteristically peak at the lowest frequencies, namely at about 1 to 10 cycles per hour. At higher frequencies, the spectral energy decreases. For example, at frequencies of 1r cycles per hour the energy is one to two orders of magnitude smaller than at the peak. We are often concerned about the full range of the spectrum the peak is associated with the production of turbulence and usually the largest eddy sizes the middle frequencies are associated with the inenial subrange, which is important for estimated dissipation rates and the highest frequencies are associated with the dissipation of TKE into heat by viscous effects. Hence, we need a way to graphically present the spectral data in a form that not only highlights the important peaks and other characteristics, but which shows all portions of the wide range of data. In the discussions that follow, a single idealized spectrum is presented in a variety of formats in Fig 8.9. The data for these plots is listed in Table 81. See Chapter 9 for examples of real atmospheric spectra.;Linearlinear presentation. When SA(f) is plotted vs. f on a linearlinear graph, the result has the desirable characteristic that the area under the curve between any pair of frequencies is proportional to the portion of variance explained by that range of frequencies. Unfortunately, the plot is useless to view because the wide range in values results in a compression of the data onto the coordinate axes (see Fig 8.9a). Alternatives include expanding the low frequency portion of the spectrum (Fig 8.9b) and plotting f.S(f) instead of just S(f) on the ordinate (Fig 8.9c). Both techniques focus on the spectral peak at the expense of losing information at the higher frequencies. Note that the f.S(f) plot causes the apparent peak to shift from the low frequency end of the spectrum towards the middle of the spectrum. Since f.S(f) is also used in a number of the other formats listed below, we should not be deceived into thinking that the middle frequencies are the ones with the most spectral energy.;Semilog presentation. By plotting f.S A (f) vs. log f, the low frequency portions of the spectra are expanded along the abscissa. Also, the ordinate for the high frequency portions are enhanced because the spectral density is multiplied by frequency (see Fig 8.9d). Another excellent quality is that the area under any portion of the curve continues to be proportional to the variance.