10.7.2 FluxProfile Relationship Method  for surface fluxes;In Section 9.7.5 the BusingerDyer relationships between the magnitude of the surface flux and the shape of the venical profile of a mean variable in the surface layer were presented. To use this technique. either iterative or nonlinear regression techniques must be used to estimate the flux that yields the best fit of the theoretical mean profile to the data. For statically nonneutral situations. both the wind and temperature profiles must be simultaneously fit. because the Obukhov length that appears in the theoretical equations;In Section 9.7.5 the BusingerDyer relationships between the magnitude of the surface flux and the shape of the venical profile of a mean variable in the surface layer were presented. To use this technique. either iterative or nonlinear regression techniques must be used to estimate the flux that yields the best fit of the theoretical mean profile to the data. For statically nonneutral situations. both the wind and temperature profiles must be simultaneously fit. because the Obukhov length that appears in the theoretical equationsfor each of those profiles is a function of both w 9  sand u.. Although this iterative;for each of those profiles is a function of both w 9  sand u.. Although this iterativeapproach is somewhat tricky. it nevertheless allows calculation of fluxes from measurements of meanvariable proftles. Advantages of fluxprofile methods are that lessexpensive slowresponse sensors can be used to measure the mean profiles. from which fluxes are then inferred. Disadvantages are that the relationship between flux and mean profile is an empirical parameterization. Also. sometimes the shape of the profile is altered by other factors. such as change in roughness or displacement distance. Another disadvantage is that only fluxes at the surface can be found. because surfacelayer similarity is used. Although the BusingerDyer flux profile relationships are preferred for this calculation. one could also try to use Ktheory. Thus. measurement of the temperature difference between two heights could be used to estimate the heat flux at the average height. for example.;(10.7.2)assuming that the value for K is known. This offers the advantage that fluxes can be determined at any height where the local gradient of the corresponding mean variable can be measured. Disadvantages include the fact that the Ktheory approach assumes local downgradient diffusion. and neglects the contribution to flux from larger eddies. We do not recommend use of the Ktheory method because of the uncenainty about the value of K.;10.7.3 Profile Similarity Method  for fluxes;Using a Ktheory approximation like (10.7.2) for two different fluxes. we can write the ratio of fluxes as;Using a Ktheory approximation like (10.7.2) for two different fluxes. we can write the ratio of fluxes aswq   KE (ilz)  (E) il u w   Km (ilUilz) m ilU;Thus. if only one of the fluxes is known from some other measurement technique. then the second flux can be estimated by simply comparing the ratio of the differences of the two mean variables across some height. Funhermore, even though the exact value for K is not well known. the ratio of K values is more well known. For example. it is often