MIXED LAYER 453overshoot a short distance because of their momentum (Fig 11.11). This overshooting is called penetrative convection (Deardorff, et al., 1969). The tops of the overshooting thermals form dome or hummocklike structures. There is little ambient turbulence in the FA, and hence no way to disperse air from the overshooting thermal into the rest of the free atmosphere. The negativelybuoyant thermal sinks back down into the ML mostly intact. Any pollutants from the ML return to, and are trapped within, the ML. During the overshoot into the inversion, wisps or sheets or curtains of warm FA air are pushed into the ML. These curtains become rapidly mixed down into the ML because of the strong turbulence there, and do not return up to the capping stable layer in spite of their positive buoyancy. The net result is entrainment of FA air into the ML. Thus, the ML grows in thickness due to a oneway entrainment process less turbulent air is entrained into more turbulent air. Thus, the ML erodes into the FA. The ML can never become shallower by entrainment.;Fig. 11.11 Penetrative convection is associated with an air parcel rising from the surface layer. The solid line is the mean background state, and the dashed line shows air parcel evolution including its penetrative overshoot into the FA.;The volume of air entrained into the top of the ML per unit horizontal area per unit time (Le., the volume flux) has the same units as velocity, and is called the entrainment velocity, we This velocity is governed by the turbulence intensity and the strength of the capping inversion. Several parameterizations for the entrainment velocity are given in Section 11.4.;Continuity Equation. To ftrst order, air density in the mixed layer can be assumed constant, allowing us to use volume conservation in place of mass conservation. In a column of ML air over a given area, A, on the earth, the volume is A,zi. If 11 represents the net volumetric flow rate into the volume, then volume conservation yields;Continuity Equation. To ftrst order, air density in the mixed layer can be assumed constant, allowing us to use volume conservation in place of mass conservation. In a column of ML air over a given area, A, on the earth, the volume is A,zi. If 11 represents the net volumetric flow rate into the volume, then volume conservation yieldsdz. AI  11 dt