As an example, in the middle 50 of the convective ML the lapse rate is nearly adiabatic, causing an incorrect classification of neutral stability if the traditional local definition is used. We must make a clear distinction between the phrases adiabatic lapse rate and neutral stability. An adiabatic lapse rate (in the virtual potential temperature sense) may be statically stable, neutral, or unstable, depending on convection and the buoyancy flux. Neutral stability implies a very specific situation adiabatic lapse rate AND no convection. The two phrases should NOT be used interchangeably, and the phrase neutral lapse rate should be avoided altogether. We conclude that measurement of the local lapse rate alone is INSUFFICIENT to determine the static stability. Either knowledge of the;As an example, in the middle 50 of the convective ML the lapse rate is nearly adiabatic, causing an incorrect classification of neutral stability if the traditional local definition is used. We must make a clear distinction between the phrases adiabatic lapse rate and neutral stability. An adiabatic lapse rate (in the virtual potential temperature sense) may be statically stable, neutral, or unstable, depending on convection and the buoyancy flux. Neutral stability implies a very specific situation adiabatic lapse rate AND no convection. The two phrases should NOT be used interchangeably, and the phrase neutral lapse rate should be avoided altogether. We conclude that measurement of the local lapse rate alone is INSUFFICIENT to determine the static stability. Either knowledge of thewhole 8 y profile is needed (described next), or measurement of the turbulent buoyancy;Nonlocal Definitions. It is better to examine the stability of the whole layer, and make a layer determination of stability such as was done in section 1.6.4. For example, if;Nonlocal Definitions. It is better to examine the stability of the whole layer, and make a layer determination of stability such as was done in section 1.6.4. For example, ifw8 at the earths surface is positive, or if displaced air parcels will rise from the ground y or sink from cloud top as thermals traveling across a BL, then the whole BL is said to be;w8 at the earths surface is positive, or if displaced air parcels will rise from the ground y or sink from cloud top as thermals traveling across a BL, then the whole BL is said to beunstable or convective. If w8  is negative at the surface, or if displaced air parcels y return to their starting point, then the BL is said to be stable. If, when integrated over the depth of the boundary layer, the mechanical production term in the TKE equation (5.1) is much larger than the buoyancy term, or if the buoyancy term is near zero, then the boundary layer is said to be neutral. In some of the older literature, the boundary layer of this latter case is also sometimes referred to as an Ekman boundary layer. During fair weather conditions over land, the BL touching the ground is rarely neutral. Neutral conditions are frequently found in the RL aloft. In overcast conditions with strong winds but little temperature difference between the air and the surface, the BL is often close to neutral stability. In the absence of knowledge of convection or measurements of buoyancy flux, an;unstable or convective. If w8  is negative at the surface, or if displaced air parcels y return to their starting point, then the BL is said to be stable. If, when integrated over the depth of the boundary layer, the mechanical production term in the TKE equation (5.1) is much larger than the buoyancy term, or if the buoyancy term is near zero, then the boundary layer is said to be neutral. In some of the older literature, the boundary layer of this latter case is also sometimes referred to as an Ekman boundary layer. During fair weather conditions over land, the BL touching the ground is rarely neutral. Neutral conditions are frequently found in the RL aloft. In overcast conditions with strong winds but little temperature difference between the air and the surface, the BL is often close to neutral stability. In the absence of knowledge of convection or measurements of buoyancy flux, analternate determination of static stability is possible if the e profile over the whole BL is y known, as sketched in Fig 5.17. As is indicated in the figure, if only portions of the profile are known, then the stability might be indeterminate. Also, it is clear that there are many situations where the traditional local defmition fails.