I certainly cannot claim to be an expert in all the myriad subdisciplines of boundary layer meteorology. yet I knew the book should be comprehensive to be useful. My interest and enthusiasm in writing this book motivated many trips to the library. and stimulated my analysis of many research papers to learn the underlying themes and common tools used in the diverse areas of boundary layer meteorology. Unfortunately. the limited space within this book necessitated some difficult decisions regarding the amount and level of material to include. Hopefully Ive presented sufficient background to lay the building blocks upon which more advanced concepts can be built by other instructors and researchers. Certain topics such as atmospheric dispersion and agricultural micrometeorology are not covered here. because there are other excellent books on these subjects. Many colleagues and friends helped with this book and contributed significantly to its final form and quality. Michelle Vandall deserves special recognition and thanks for drawing most of the figures. designing the page and chapter headers. and for her overall dedication to this project. Colleagues Steve Stage. Larry Mahrt. George Young. Jacq Schols. Chandran Kaimal. Steve Silberberg. Beth Ebert. and Bruce Albrecht reviewed various chapters and provided valuable suggestions. Information regarding field experiments was provided by Anton Beljaars. Ad Driedonks. JeanClaude Andre. Jean Paul Goutorbe. Anne Jochum. Steve Nelson. Bob Murphy. Ruwim Berkowicz. Peter Hildebrand. Don Lenschow. and others. Eric Nelson proofread the manuscript. and helped with the list of notation. Sam Zhang compiled the index. Some of the equations were typeset by Camille Riner and Michelle Vlllldall (her name keeps reappearing). Four years of students in my micrometeorology courses at Wisconsin graciously tolerated various unfinished drafts of the book. and caught many mistakes. The patient editors of Kluwer Academic Publishers (formerly D. Reidel) provided constant encouragement. and are to be congratulated for their foresight and advice. The American Meteorological Society is acknowledged for permission to reproduce figures 10.7. 12.10 and 12.19. To all of these people and the many more to whom I apologize for not naming here. I thank you. To my wife. Linda. I give my gratitude for her devotion during this exciting and exhausting episode of my life.;Roland B. Stull Boundary Layer Research Team Madison. Wisconsin