 Wind stress on the sea surface is the primary energy source for ocean currents .  Turbulent transport and advection in the BL move water and oxygen to and from immobile life forms like plants.;Obviously the list could go on, but the main point is BL processes affect our lives directly, and indirectly via its influence on the rest of the weather. In this book we examine some of the processes that occur in the BL, develop some schemes for coping with turbulence, and show how they can be applied to benefit mankind. For additional infonnation on boundary layers, turbulence and micrometeorology, the General References section below lists books and other secondary sources. A reference section at the end of each chapter lists the specific articles sited in the chapter. A summary table of frequentlyused scaling variables and dimensionless groups is given in Appendix A. Appendix B lists notation, including abbreviations, symbols and acronyms. Appendix C gives values of frequentlyused parameters and constants. Additional appendices are specifically referenced in the text.;Turbulence  Waves Batchelor, G.K., 1953 The theory of homogeneous turbulence. Cambridge Science Classics Series. Cambridge Univ. Press. 197pp. Frost, W. and T.H. Moulden, 1977 Handbook of Turbulence, Vol.I, Fundamentals and Applications. Plenum Press, NY. 498 pp. Gossard, E.E. and W.H. Hooke, 1975 Waves in the Atmosphere, Atmospheric lnfrasound and Gravity Waves  their Generation and Propagation. Elsevier Scientific Pub!. Co., NY. 456pp. Hinze, J.O., 1975 Turbulence (2nd ed). McGrawHill Series in Mechanical Engineering. McGrawHill Book Co., NY 790pp. Lighthill, J., 1978 Waves in Fluids. Cambridge University Press. England. 504pp. Lumley, J.L. and H.A. Panofsky, 1964 The Structure of Atmospheric Turbulence. Monographs and Texts in Physics and Astronomy. Vol XII. Interscience Pub., John Wiley  Sons, NY 239pp. Monin, A.S. and A.M. Yaglom, 1973 Statistical Fluid Mechanics, Vols 1  2. Edited by John Lumley. The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA. 769pp. Panofsky, H.A., and J.A. Dutton, 1984 Atmospheric Turbulence, Models and Methods for Engineering Applications. WileyInterscience, John Wiley  Sons, NY. 397pp. Scorer, R.S., 1978 Environmental Aerodynamics. Ellis Horwood, Halsted Press, John Wiley  Sons. London. 488pp. Stanisic, M.M., 1985 The Mathematical Theory of Turbulence. Universitext, Springer Verlag, NY. 429pp. Tennekes, H. and J.L. Lumley, 1982 A First Course in Turbulence (2nd Ed). The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA 300pp. Townsend, A.A., 1976 The Structure of Turbulent Shear Flow (2nd Ed). Cambridge