If we compare the TKE equation (5.1) with the MKE equation (5.4b);If we compare the TKE equation (5.1) with the MKE equation (5.4b)aCTKElm) at;aCTKElm) atcJ..MKFIm) at au.  u u.  1    1 J ax. J;cJ..MKFIm) at au.  u u.  1    1 J ax. Jwe see that they both contain a tenn describing the interaction between the mean flow and turbulence. The sign of these terms differ. Thus, the energy that is mechanically produced as turbulence is lost from the mean low, and vice versa.;Unstable flows become or remain turbulent. Stable flows become or remain laminar. There are many factors that can cause laminar flow to become turbulent, and other factors that tend to stabilize flows. If the the net effect of all the destabilizing factors exceeds the net effect of the stabilizing factors, then turbulence will occur. In many cases, these factors can be interpreted as tenns in the TKE budget equation. To simplify the problem, investigators have historically paired one destabilizing factor with one stabilizing factor, and expressed these factors as a dimensionless ratio. Examples of these ratios are the Reynolds number, Richardson number, Rossby number, Froude number, and Rayleigh number. Some other stability parameters such as static stability, however, are not expressed in dimensionless form.;Static stability is a measure of the capability for buoyant convection. The word static means having no motion hence this type of stability does not depend on wind. Air is statically unstable when lessdense air (warmer andor moister) underlies more dense air. The flow responds to this instability by supporting convective circulations such as thennals that allow buoyant air to rise to the top of the unstable layer, thereby stabilizing the fluid. Thennals also need some trigger mechanism to get them started. In the real boundary layer, there are so many triggers (hills, buildings, trees, dark fields, or other perturbations to the mean flow) that convection is usually insured, given the static instability.;Local Definitions. The traditional definition taught in basic meteorology classes is local in nature namely, the static stability is detennined by the local lapse rate. The local definition frequently fails in convective MLs, because the rise of thennals from near the surface or their descent from cloud top depends on their excess buoyancy and not on the ambient lapse rate.