As in other boundary layers, conduction is small enough to be negligible everywhere except within a few millimeters above the ground. Within these few millimeters, however, the molecular flux dominates over the turbulent flux, and is responsible for the cooling of air in these lowest layers. Above this height, turbulence can transport the colder air upward into the remainder of the SBL. As before, the effective turbulent flUX at ground level, QH is composed mostly of the molecular flux, because the true turbulent flux goes to zero at the surface. Within these few millimeters, molecular diffusion and conduction control dew and frost formation at night. Dew forms primarily at the tips (Le., points) of blades of grass, because diffusion of water vapor from the air towards the tip can come from the largest range of angles. Also, the tips can radiate over a large range of angles towards the sky, without experiencing as much return radiation from other objects (like other blades of grass). The reader is directed to any of the cloud microphysics texts for more details of droplet and ice crystal formation.;TurbulenC4! Classification. A variety of types of turbulence can occur in the SBL (Mahrt and Gamage, 1987). In some situations, the SBL is continuously and strongly turbulent over the whole depth of the SBL. In other situations, turbulence might be patchy, weak and intermittent, but when time averaged over a couple hours the average turbulence flux might appear to be acting over the whole SBL depth. Finally, some observations show turbulence aloft that is relatively disconnected with processes at the surface. In the absence of fog or stratocumulus, turbulence is generated only mechanically in the SBL, usually by wind shears. Wind shear can be created near the ground by friction acting on the ambient flow. It can be generated aloft by variations in the geostrophic wind speed with height. When a lowlevel jet forms, shears can be enhanced both below and above the nose of the jet. Over sloping terrain, shears can develop at the top of the layer of drainage flow (Mahrt, 1985). Also, shears can be enhanced or reduced at different locations relative to the phase of buoyancy waves. Finally, flow around obstacles such as tree and buildings can generate wake turbulence.;Tie scales. Brost and Wyngaard (1978) suggested that a timescale for the effects of turbulence on the whole SBL is approximatelyh t  R 0.01 u. (12.2.3a);This scale represents the time it takes for surface information to be communicated across the depth of the SBL via turbulence. Using typical ranges of values for u. and h for weak