Disadvantages of direct sensors include modification of the flow by the sensor or its platform, the fact that it gives a potentially unrepresentative point value, and the requirement to physically position the sensor in the part of the boundary layer where the measurement is to be made. Disadvantages of remote sensors include their size (large antennas or receiving dishes), cost and complexity, inability to measure cenain boundary layer characteristics, their small signal to noise ratio which necessitates averaging over relatively large volumes (i.e., point values are not reliable), and the fact that the waves may be modified as they propagate back to the sensor. At present satellitebased remote sensors do not have adequate vertical resolution to provide much data in the boundary layer. Advantages of direct sensors include sensitivity, accuracy, and simplicity. Advantages of remote sensors include the fact that they can quickly scan a large volume, area, or line of the atmosphere while remaining stationary on the ground, or located at convenient aircraft altitudes. An additional tradeoff between direct and remote sensors is the spacetime required to acquire statistically stable turbulent moments (fluxes, variances). Lenschow and Stankov (1986) have shown that measurements by airborne direct sensors in convective boundary layers theoretically must be made over distances of about 10 to 100 km for turbulent variances, about 10010,000 km for scalar fluxes, and 1000 to 100,000 km for stress, in order to achieve 10 accuracy. In many cases, it is impossible for flight legs of the required distance to be flown. Measurements over shoner distances would yield statistically nonrobust data that has a lot of scatter, such as demonstrated by the fluxes plotted in Figs 3.1  3.3 that were computed from data over 20 km flight legs. Remote sensors, which can scan large volumes in short times, can potentially achieve a much better statistical average, and are becoming more popular.;The large variety of sensors that have been developed is staggering. In the lists below, sensors that have been frequently used for fastresponse measurements are flagged with (). After each sensor is a brief explanation of the physical propenies involved.;Direct Sensors liquid (mercury or alcohol) in glass  liquid expands higher into glass tube wax thermostat  wax expands e.g., automobile thermostats bimetallic strip  two metals expand at different rates, causing bimetallic strip to bend thermocouple  junctions between different wires (copper  constantan) generate voltage thermistor  semiconductor electrical characteristics change resistance wireshot wires  electrical resistance changes sonic anemometerthermometer  speed of sound varies meltingfreezing points for different chemicals  e.g., wax melts on paper, changing color quartz crystals  electronic resonance frequency changes