100 m and 500 m, then there is at least as much mixing between 200 m and 300 m. It would be ridiculous to allow turbulence to mix fluid between two distant points across an interior region that was nonturbulent. Thus, we make the additional requirement that the elements of the Y matrix increase monotonically from the upperright and lowerleft corners toward the main diagonal. Any of the preliminary elements that do not satisfy this last requirement are increased to equal the largest elements further away from the diagonal. The elements along the main diagonal are set equal the the largest immediate element on the same row, plus a Yref value that represents the potential for subgrid scale mixing within one box. If we assume that the mixing between i and j equals the mixing between j and i, then both the mixing potential matrix and the transilient matrix are symmetric. This reduces the degrees of freedom from (N2  N) to (N2  N)2. By using the mixing potential parameterization just described, we further reduce the degrees of freedom to just four, based on the four empirical parameters. Their values are recommended (based on atmospheric simulation tests) to be To  1000 s, Dy  1 (dimensionless), the critical Richardson number is Rc  0.21, and Yref  1000 (dimensionless). Finally, if each row of the final mixing potential matrix is summed, the scalar norm is set equal to the maximum sum. Namely,;Fig 6.12 shows an example of a boundary layer forecast made with the parameterization above. The growth of an entraining mixed layer is clearly evident, even though no explicit mixed layer or boundary layer specification was imposed other than the surface heating that acted on the bottom one grid point. The corresponding wind and flux forecasts for this case are shown by Stull and Driedonks (1987).;..  ........ Ii., ..  .. 8 qs 20 e (OC) 25;Fig. 6.12 Transilient turbulence simulation of the potential temperature profile evolution at Cabauw, Holland, for 30 May 1978. After Stull  Driedonks (1987).