Environmental Feedbacks. There are two positive feedbacks that can be easily discussed. Active clouds tend to vent moisture from the ML and deposit it in the FA. Passive clouds tend to evaporate more slowly in a moist FA than in a dry one. Thus, the number of passive and active clouds can increase in the FA with time as new clouds develop, but older passive and active clouds linger because of slower evaporation rates. Nonprecipitating active clouds also vent some of the cooler ML air (in a potential temperature sense) into the cloud layer. Between clouds, subsidence brings warmer air down to the ML top, where the ML can entrain it. As a result, the ML warms and the FA cools, resulting in a destabilization of the whole MLFA system and the increase in cloud cover.;13.4.3 Cumulus Onset Time and Cloud Cover;There is a thermaltothermal variability in temperature and moisture associated with the variability in land use over which thermals form. Thus, thermals penetrate to a variety of heights, and have a variety of LCLs. The range of penetration heights has already been defined as the entrainment zone. The range of LCLs defines the LCL zone (Wilde, et ai., 1985). The first cumulus clouds of the day will form when the top of the entrainment zone reaches the bottom of the LCL zone, because at that time some of the thermals are reaching their LCLs. As more of the entrainment zone overlaps and moves above the LCL zone, the cloud cover increases (Fig 13.12). If the entrainment zone were to move completely above the LCL zone, then the sky would be overcast ( 95 cloud cover) because all of the thermals are above their respective LCLs, leaving only the unmixed entrained air as cloudfree breaks in the overcast. The probability density function (pdf) of finding the top of a thermal at any height within the entrainment zone is well described by a double exponential function, such as is plotted in Fig 13.13. The peak in the function occurs at the mean ML height, Zi and the width of the function covers the thickness of the entrainment zone. This function indicatts;Fig. 13.12 Idealization of the evolution of the entrainment zone and LCL zone, based on BLX83 data. Overlap of these two zones is related to the amount of fairweather cumulus cloud cover, resu lting in a coverage diagnosis sketched at the bottom of the figure. Data points showobserved cloud cover for this case. (After Wilde, et ai, 1985).;Fig. 13.12 Idealization of the evolution of the entrainment zone and LCL zone, based on BLX83 data. Overlap of these two zones is related to the amount of fairweather cumulus cloud cover, resu lting in a coverage diagnosis sketched at the bottom of the figure. Data points showobserved cloud cover for this case. (After Wilde, et ai, 1985).g