TURBULENCE CLOSURE 225moments behave therefore, we have little guidance for suggesting good parameterizations for these moments. Now we see why such crude approximations are made in thirdorder closure models. Higherorder closure models have many parameters that can be adjusted advantageously to yield good forecasts. These parameters are finetuned using special limiting case studies and laboratory flows where simplifications cause some of the terms to disappear, allowing better determination of the few remaining terms.;Nonlocal closure recognizes that largersize eddies can transport fluid across finite distances before the smaller eddies have a chance to cause mixing. This advectivelike concept is supported by observations of thermals rising with undiluted cores, finite size swirls of leaves or snow, and the organized circulation patterns sometimes visible from cloud photographs. Two firstorder nonlocal closure models will be presented here. One, called transilient turbulence theory, approaches the subject from a physical space perspective. The other, called spectral diffusivity theory, utilizes a spectral or phasespace approach. Both allow a range of eddy sizes to contribute to the turbulent mixing process. Two separate forms of transilient turbulence theory have evolved (Stull, 1984) one in discrete form for numerical modeling, and the other in analytical integral form for theoretical work. We will start with the discrete form because it is easier to picture physically.;6.8.1 Discrete Form  Definition of Framework;Imagine a onedimensional column of air that is split into separate equalsize grid boxes, as sketched in Fig 6.8a. In a numerical model, grid point locations in the center of each box represent the average conditions within those boxes. If we focus on just one particular (reference) grid box, we can identify those eddies that mix air into our reference box from other boxes above and below, and we can locate the destination boxes for air that leaves the reference box. This same procedure can be used to investigate mixing between all boxes in the column, as shown by the superposition of eddies in Fig 6.8b. Turbulent mixing of fluid into our reference box (the box with index i) from the other boxes can change the state (temperature, humidity, tracer concentration, etc.) of that box.