386 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYz L  Ri, (9.7.5j);z L  Ri, (9.7.5j)where Ri is the gradient Richardson number (see Fig 5.23 of Chapt. 5). Since Ri is based on gradients of mean potential temperature and wind, it is easy to calculate directly from measurements of those mean variables. Thus, the calculation of the u. or 8. SL in (9.7.5i) is much easier. For statically stable conditions, Arya (1981) suggested that the shape similarity of the;where Ri is the gradient Richardson number (see Fig 5.23 of Chapt. 5). Since Ri is based on gradients of mean potential temperature and wind, it is easy to calculate directly from measurements of those mean variables. Thus, the calculation of the u. or 8. SL in (9.7.5i) is much easier. For statically stable conditions, Arya (1981) suggested that the shape similarity of thetemperature and wind profiles be utilized, to yield u.8. SL  e, where the differences!l are taken vertically within the surface layer. These simplifications lead to;temperature and wind profiles be utilized, to yield u.8. SL  e, where the differences!l are taken vertically within the surface layer. These simplifications lead tou. e!lM L   (9.7.5k) (k g 8);u. e!lM L   (9.7.5k) (k g 8)where;As introduced earlier, it is often necessary to be able to approximate the surface stress and fluxes in terms of mean variables at the grid points in numerical models. Unfortunately, in some models the lowest grid point is well above the surface layer, making it impossible to use the fluxprofile relationships described earlier. By matching surface layer profiles to flows in the midboundary layer, surface fluxes can be related to conditions higher in the boundary layer. The profile matching technique uses two separate similarity approximations one that describes the departure of the actual wind from geostrophic (i.e., the geostrophic departure) in the (outer) midboundary layer;As introduced earlier, it is often necessary to be able to approximate the surface stress and fluxes in terms of mean variables at the grid points in numerical models. Unfortunately, in some models the lowest grid point is well above the surface layer, making it impossible to use the fluxprofile relationships described earlier. By matching surface layer profiles to flows in the midboundary layer, surface fluxes can be related to conditions higher in the boundary layer. The profile matching technique uses two separate similarity approximations one that describes the departure of the actual wind from geostrophic (i.e., the geostrophic departure) in the (outer) midboundary layerand the other for the log profile lower in the (inner) surface layer