Sketches of returned signal for radar RHI returns are shown in Fig lO.la. In fair weather conditions, the boundary layer is often more humid than the free atmosphere. Thus, centimeterscale eddies on the interface between the mixed layer and the free atmosphere create strong returns. Within the mixed layer there is little returned energy in spite of the strong turbulence, because the humidity is high everywhere. Similarly, there is usually little returned energy in the free atmosphere, because the humidity is low everywhere. Sometimes, however, layers of moist air aloft allow clear air turbulence regions to be visible on radar, exhibiting a characteristic cats eye pattern. Normal weather radar is neither powerful nor sensitive enough to detect most clearair boundary layer phenomena so only a smaller number of research radars have been used for this work. These research radars can detect turbulence from near the surface up to the top of the troposphere. A variety of groundbased automated microwave atmospheric sounders have also been developed for deployment and operational gathering of wind and other meteorological data. Fig 5.8 shows the difference between mechanical turbulence (forced convection) and convective turbulence (free convection) as viewed by radar. Free convection exhibits the characteristic upsidedown U shaped returns associated with the tops of thermals. Mechanical turbulence creates a more random and torn return, with tilts in the displayed structures giving evidence of wind shear. Radar returns for stable boundary layers are plotted in Fig lO.ld. Fig 10.lg shows PPI scans of free convection, where the horizontal slices through thermals show circular or donutlike patterns around the perimeter of the thermals. Even in cloudfree boundary layers, there may be enough insects to enhance the scattering back to the radar. In some field experiments, chaff is dispersed to create even more returns. Chaff are fine hairlike strands of plastic, coated with a thin layer of aluminum or other conductor. These strands are cut to the wavelength (or fraction or multiple of the wavelength) of the microwaves, and are dispensed in the air either from aircraft or from the ground. Their light weight causes their terminal velocity to be almost zero, and allows them to be carried aloft and dispersed by the turbulence.;Sodars (sometimes called acoustic sounders) send an audible beep of sound, generated by powerful loudspeaker horns. The returned sound is usually focused by a parabolic dish into a sensitive microphone, which serves as the detector. To reduce the amount of ambient background noise entering the system, shelters and acoustic screens are usually erected around the dishmicrophone receiver, or else the receiver is placed in a hole below ground. Otherwise, noise from rustling leaves, wind noise, traffic, and conversation can contaminate the desired signal. Sodar detects the interface at top of the mixed layer, using variations between the cooler mixed layer air and the warmer temperature inversion air capping the mixed layer.