STABLE BOUNDARY LAYER 503between the residual layer air, eo, and the nearsurface air, es. This is a measure of the amount of cooling that has occurred since SBL formation (Le., since transition), because the potential temperature of the residual layer is close to the initial nearsurface air temperature at transition time (Fig 12.4). Typical magnitudes for SBL strength range from zero at transition to values on the order of 15C by morning, depending on the turbulence intensity and cloud cover. The height, h, of the top of the SBL (Le., the SBL depth) is more difficult to quantify, because in many cases the SBL blends smoothly into the residual layer (RL) aloft without a strong demarcation at its top. Thus, many of the definitions of SBL depth that appeared in the literature are based on relative comparisons of SBL state aloft to near surface state. For example, h can be defined as the lowest height where;(stable layer top i.e., the height where the lapse rate is adiabatic);(inversion top i.e., the height where the lapse rate is isothermal) (top of the turbulent layer, or mixed layer if one exists) (height where turbulence is 5 of its surface value); M  G (bottom of free atmosphere, where winds are geostrophic)  sodar returns disappear (top of the layer with temperature fluctuations) Typical magnitudes for height of the top of the SBL range from near zero at transition time to over 1000 m. UsuaHy, however, SBLs grow to depths of about 100 to 500 m. Those definitions requiring a gradient or flux to equal zero are extremely difficult to use, because those quantities often approach, but never exactly equal zero. Also, different investigators might use the saine criteria with the same data and still select different SBL depths, given errors in the experimental data. It has been difficult to compare SBL models and normalized data, because different investigators have used different depth definitions. Mahrt and Heald (1979) have shown that for some cases, these different definitions are poorly correlated with each other, even for the same SBL. An alternative measure of the SBL depth is the integral depth scale, Hs where f dz z (12.1.2b)