Fig 7.I5b indicates that the fluxes do not all cross the zero line at the same time for the PenmanMonteith method. This is indeed more realistic. Also note that at night there is still a positive latent heat flux. This is partially balanced by a greater negative sensible heat flux than in the previous method. Physically, this means that enough heat is lost from the air to the ground to balance both the radiative loss and to also support evaporation from the surface at night. During the day, the sensible heat flux becomes negative well before the radiative forcing becomes zero near sunset. Finally, Fig 7.15c most graphically demonstrates the differences between the two methods. By looking at the Bowen ratio, we see that the two methods give close to the same answer only during midday. At other times, they differ significantly from each other, even having opposite signs at night. It appears that the PenmanMonteith method has the potential for giving better results, assuming that appropriate values can be estimated for the parameters such as relative humidity, ground moisture, etc.;We will use the words ground flux to represent heat flux into the ground measured at the top of the soil. This flux is a small, but not insignificant, component of the surface energy budget. This flux is also related to the surface skin temperature, which is what the atmosphere sees when it radiatively looks down at the bottom boundary. If the flux is not known or measured directly, then we often need to parameterize it for PBL forecast models. Sample parameterizations are given below.;Averaged over a full 24hour cycle, the net heat flux is often near zero. Namely, the heating of the ground during the day is nearly balanced by cooling at night, leading to little net change of heat in the soil. Thus, for some climate and general circulation models (GeM), it is assumed for simplicity that Qa  O. If we choose to use a flux partitioning scheme such as discussed in Section 7.5, then we could partition some portion of flux to go into or from the ground. One simple scheme is to assume that the ground flux is a percentage, X, of the net radiation;Qa  X Q (7.6.1a)where X  0.1 during the daytime, and X  0.5 at night, for example. Fig 7.16 shows data from a number of daytime measurements over land, where most of the ground flux values are between 5 and 15 of the net radiation. An alternative is to assume the ground flux is a percentage of the turbulent sensible heat flux into the air