STABLEBOUNDARYLAYER 519understood better, rate equations were devised to allow the SBL depth to slowly approach an equilibrium depth. Neither of these approaches yielded the best results, and are only briefly reviewed here.;The following models, sans empirical constants, have been proposed at various timesfor equilibrium SBL depths, heq u.fe u.2(feO sin (laM), u. L Ilfel 12, L,;OINBV, hllopopause 0 29 I (g 69,), and combinations of these, where XoM is the angle between the geostrophic and surface winds. The last model listed above is based on the assumption that the bulk Richardson number for the whole SBL is constant. None of these diagnostic models were found to be satisfactory, because the SBL is rarely in equilibrium. It evolves with time as cold air is accumulated and as forcings change.;After diagnostic models were found to be unsatisfactory, an improvement was suggested where the actual depth tends to adjust toward an eqUilibrium depth, with a response time of tR As a result, the socalled rate equations were borndh h  h e (12.4.2) dt t;For constant heq, the equation above describes an exponential approach of h toward heq,with an efolding time oftR Over ten versions of this rate equation are in the literature. Although most are better than the diagnostic approach, they still have some drawbacks. Part of the problem is the assumption that there exists some appropriate equilibrium depth, heq. Many of the same models of equilibrium depth described in the diagnostic section are also used in the rate equations. A variety of models for response time have been proposed, including hu.,;with an efolding time oftR Over ten versions of this rate equation are in the literature. Although most are better than the diagnostic approach, they still have some drawbacks. Part of the problem is the assumption that there exists some appropriate equilibrium depth, heq. Many of the same models of equilibrium depth described in the diagnostic section are also used in the rate equations. A variety of models for response time have been proposed, including hu.,hO, hIM, life and 69J(d9Jdt).;A few other approaches are suggested in the literature, some of which are of the form dhdt 0 u L I h. Although this yields the appropriate squareroot time dependence, it is not a function of the accumulated cooling. This scheme also has difficulties. Surridge and Swanepoel (1987) found that the squareroot time dependence occurs on many occasions at many sites, but not at all sites. For some of the sites, the SBL depth and strength approach equilibrium values with an errorfunction time dependency