430 . BOUNDARYLAYEROROLOGYassumed that K for all scalars and heat are equal to each other, while Km  0.74 KH for statically neutral conditions (see Section 9.7.5). Advantages of this approach are that simple mean measurements at two different heights and knowledge of anyone flux is sufficient to determine the other fluxes. This is particularly valuable for moisture flux, which is notoriously difficult to measure directly. The disadvantage is that one of the fluxes must still be measured by other means.;10.7.4 Bowen Ratio Method  for surface fluxes;An equation like (10.7.3) can be written for the Bowen ratio;We are neglecting for simplicity the variation of Cp with humidity in the development that follows a more accurate approach should employ (10.7.1c). At the surface, we can relate QH and QE via the energy balance (7.5) (Qs  QG)  QH  QE These two equations can be solved for QH and QE ;We are neglecting for simplicity the variation of Cp with humidity in the development that follows a more accurate approach should employ (10.7.1c). At the surface, we can relate QH and QE via the energy balance (7.5) (Qs  QG)  QH  QE These two equations can be solved for QH and QE and (10.7.4b);Thus, if the simple measurements of f.t.q and f.t.8 are made in the surface layer from sensors at two different heights on a mast, and if the net radiation is measured and the ground flux is measured or estimated, then we can find the surface sensible and latent heat fluxes. The advantages of this approach are that it is simple, and the resulting fluxes balance the surface energy budget by definition. The disadvantage is that there are times (such as;Thus, if the simple measurements of f.t.q and f.t.8 are made in the surface layer from sensors at two different heights on a mast, and if the net radiation is measured and the ground flux is measured or estimated, then we can find the surface sensible and latent heat fluxes. The advantages of this approach are that it is simple, and the resulting fluxes balance the surface energy budget by definition. The disadvantage is that there are times (such assunrise and especially sunset) when f.t.q or f.t.e are small, causing equations (10.7.4b) to blow up and give unrealistic results. At other times during the day or night, this approach appears to work well.;10.7.5 Spectral Method  for dissipation rate;Dissipation rates are difficult to measure directly, but they are easy to infer fromsimilarity approaches. From Section 9.9.1 recall that S(K)   e?3 K53 in the inertial;similarity approaches. From Section 9.9.1 recall that S(K)   e?3 K53 in the inertialsubrange. This can be solved for  using the following steps