MEASUREMENT AND SIMULATION 427particular, complex physical models of buildings, smoke stacks, and terrain can be constructed and placed in the wind tunnel. Such a wind tunnel simulation is often superior to the corresponding numerical simulation, which is often too difficult to design. One variation on the wind tunnel is the windwave tunnel, where the bottom half of the channel is filled with water and the top is air. This is useful in studying airsea interaction. There are also many other good uses for wind tunnels in meteorology, such as calibrating anemometers.;Values of mean wind, temperature and humidity can be measured directly. Auxes, TKE, and dissipation rates can be calculated in a variety of ways, as we discuss in detail here.;10.7.1 Eddy Correlation Method  for various statistical moments such as fluxes, variances, TKE;Fastresponse measurements of state variables generate time series of data that we can statistically analyze however, problems with the series must be fixed before performing the eddycorrelation calculations. Sometimes there are spikes in the data (unrealistically large or small values) associated with nonmeteorological events (bug strikes on the sensor, voltage surges in the power supply). These spikes must be removed and replaced with good or bogus data. The data should be detrended (or at least demeaned) and high pass filtered to remove wavelengths longer than about 13 to 15 of the length of the series. This latter procedure insures that enough complete cycles of the retained wavelengths are averaged to yield significant statistics. If spectra are to be found, then additional conditioning is sometimes necessary, as described in Chapter 8. Finally, we are left with a clean series that can be used in the eddycorrelation analysis. The first step in the eddycorrelation process is to calculate the perturbation values of the data points. For example, given a time series of measurements of potential temperature, we can subtract the mean potential temperature from each data point to yield the time series of perturbations e.g., e (t), e(tt). e (t2t), e(t3t), ... . We can similarly find a time series of vertical velocity perturbations e.g., w(t), w(tt),;Fastresponse measurements of state variables generate time series of data that we can statistically analyze however, problems with the series must be fixed before performing the eddycorrelation calculations. Sometimes there are spikes in the data (unrealistically large or small values) associated with nonmeteorological events (bug strikes on the sensor, voltage surges in the power supply). These spikes must be removed and replaced with good or bogus data. The data should be detrended (or at least demeaned) and high pass filtered to remove wavelengths longer than about 13 to 15 of the length of the series. This latter procedure insures that enough complete cycles of the retained wavelengths are averaged to yield significant statistics. If spectra are to be found, then additional conditioning is sometimes necessary, as described in Chapter 8. Finally, we are left with a clean series that can be used in the eddycorrelation analysis. The first step in the eddycorrelation process is to calculate the perturbation values of the data points. For example, given a time series of measurements of potential temperature, we can subtract the mean potential temperature from each data point to yield the time series of perturbations e.g., e (t), e(tt). e (t2t), e(t3t), ... . We can similarly find a time series of vertical velocity perturbations e.g., w(t), w(tt),w(t2t) , w(t3t), ... . Multiplying the respective values together yields a time series of we e.g., we(t), we(tt). we(t2t), we(t3t), ... J. The average of this;w(t2t) , w(t3t), ... . Multiplying the respective values together yields a time series of we e.g., we(t), we(tt). we(t2t), we(t3t), ... J. The average of thisseries, w e  is the definition of kinematic turbulent heat flux in the vertical, as was;shown in Chapter 2. Once time series of e, q, u, v, and w are calculated from a data set, we can findvia simple multiplication and averaging quantities such as fluxes e.g., u w  w q 