376 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOOYsituations. For example, on a different day with Zj  1200 m and w9   0.2 K mis, v s we might wish to know the venical velocity variance at z  500 m without performing an experiment to measure it ourselves. At that height, zzi  0.42, which can be used in the;situations. For example, on a different day with Zj  1200 m and w9   0.2 K mis, v s we might wish to know the venical velocity variance at z  500 m without performing an experiment to measure it ourselves. At that height, zzi  0.42, which can be used in theabove equation or with Fig 9.3b directly to give us w,2w2  0.42. Since w.  2 mls;above equation or with Fig 9.3b directly to give us w,2w2  0.42. Since w.  2 mlsbased on flux and zi data given at the start of this example, we can easily solve for w,2 ;1.68 m2 s2. The above example was more than just a contrived didactic case. If you look back at Fig 4.2a, you will see that venical velocity variance measurements do indeed vary with height as described here.;One imponant application of similarity theory is to the mean wind profile in the surface layer. Since people spend most of their lives within the surface layer, the variation of wind speed with height affects their daily lives. The nature of this profile dictates the structure of buildings, bridges, snow fences, wind breaks, pollutant dispersion, and wind turbines, for example. Also, the surface layer wind profile has been studied extensively because of its accessibility to surface based measurements. As shown in Fig 9.4, the wind speed usually varies approximately logarithmically with height in the surface layer. Frictional drag causes the wind speed to become zero close to the ground, while the pressure gradient forces cause the wind to increase with height.;One imponant application of similarity theory is to the mean wind profile in the surface layer. Since people spend most of their lives within the surface layer, the variation of wind speed with height affects their daily lives. The nature of this profile dictates the structure of buildings, bridges, snow fences, wind breaks, pollutant dispersion, and wind turbines, for example. Also, the surface layer wind profile has been studied extensively because of its accessibility to surface based measurements. As shown in Fig 9.4, the wind speed usually varies approximately logarithmically with height in the surface layer. Frictional drag causes the wind speed to become zero close to the ground, while the pressure gradient forces cause the wind to increase with height.z I J  j  I   Fig. 9.4 Typical logarithmic variation of wind speed with height in the neutral surface layer.