466 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYupdrafts cluster, because the dominant wavelength of the vertical velocity spectra in MLs is at a wavelength of 1.5 zi (Young, 1988) Also, the number of welldefined thermal events decreases with height within the ML, suggesting that some of the thermals do not succeed in rising to the ML top. However, the diameter of thermals increases with height, suggesting that some thermals merge as they rise (Greenhut and Khalsa, 1987). Conditionally sampled average values of vertical velocities and temperatures in updrafts and downdrafts are plotted in Fig 11.23. As expected, the virtual temperature excess in thermals is greatest at the ground, and can become negative at the top of the ML. Downdrafts at the ML top consist of warm entrained air, but lower in the ML the downdrafts are increasingly colder than the average ML temperature. The wide range of values indicated in this figure is related, in part, to differing definitions for indicator functions used by different investigators.;Fig. 11.23 Conditionally sampled values of (a) temperature and (b) vertical velocity in updrafts (thermals) and downdrafts. (After Young, 1988 and Greenhut and Khalsa, 1987).;Part of the difficulty in defining thermal boundaries is that although thermals start rising in the bottom third of the boundary layer as elements that are warmer than their environment, they are found to be cooler than their environment in the entrainment zone region. Some thermals gain most of the buoyancy from their moisture content, allowing the top half to be cooler than the environment even though the middle third might still be positively buoyant (using virtual potential temperature). Lidar observations based on aerosol backscatter above some threshold (Hooper and Eloranta, 1986) tend to show the diameters of thermals decreasing with height (Fig 11.24), while Doppler sodar based on upward velocity above some threshold sometimes shows constant or increasing diameters (Taconet and Weill, 1983 Coulter. et al., 1985). Almost aLL of the observations indicate that the thermals are not like bubbles, but are more like finite length columns that persist for some time. This suggests that the best model might be the wurst model namely, the idealized thermal shape is like that of a sausage or wurst. Real thermals are not perfect columns of rising air, but twist and