428 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYwe, variances e.g., w,2, q,2, u,2, e,2, turbulence kinetic energy TKE  0.5(u,2 ;2 2 . 2 2 2 3 v   w ), fluxes of vanances e.g., wq, we, u w, w, fluxes of fluxes; 2e z  , ,2 fl f .  , 0 5 ( ,2 ,2 ,2) e.g., w ,w q , u w , uxes 0 energies e.g., we  .W U  v  w ,; 2e z  , ,2 fl f .  , 0 5 ( ,2 ,2 ,2) e.g., w ,w q , u w , uxes 0 energies e.g., we  .W U  v  w ,and higher moments e.g., w,2e ,2, u,3q w,4 .;An advantage of this method is that it is direct and simple, and fluxes can be calculated at whatever height or location that the original time series was measured. A disadvantage is that expensive fastresponse sensors must be used. If slower response sensors were substituted, the perturbation values will be filtered by the instrument response to smaller magnitudes, resulting in incorrect fluxes and other eddy correlations. Another disadvantage is that errors in the original series compound themselves as higher and higher moments are calculated, so that by the third or fourth moments the noise (error) is as large or larger than the signal. In Sections 2.6 and 3.2.5 we gave only the briefest overview of the relationship;An advantage of this method is that it is direct and simple, and fluxes can be calculated at whatever height or location that the original time series was measured. A disadvantage is that expensive fastresponse sensors must be used. If slower response sensors were substituted, the perturbation values will be filtered by the instrument response to smaller magnitudes, resulting in incorrect fluxes and other eddy correlations. Another disadvantage is that errors in the original series compound themselves as higher and higher moments are calculated, so that by the third or fourth moments the noise (error) is as large or larger than the signal. In Sections 2.6 and 3.2.5 we gave only the briefest overview of the relationshipbetween actual sensible heat flux, QH and the kinematic flux, w 8 . The precise;between actual sensible heat flux, QH and the kinematic flux, w 8 . The preciserelationship is (Brook, 1978 Riehl, et aI., 1978);(l0.7.1b)where (Cp water vapor  d  Cpd 1  0.84. Combining these two equations and neglecting the higherorder terms yields