This review will be limited to discrete series namely. measurements taken at regularlyspaced intervals that lead to a fmite number. N, of data points. A discrete series represents a sample of the true, continuouslyvarying signal. Examples of discrete series include temperature or tracer concentration measurements made every second during the course of an hour at a fixed location such as an instrumented tower. or measurements of humidity taken every meter from an aircraft flying on a 25 Ion flight leg. If A(t) represents the true signal as a continuous function of time. then we could sample that signal at evenlyspaced times t  t. t  t,,6t. t  t,,26t. t  t,,36t  ... t  t,,(Nl)6t. where the total number of data points is N. We will use an index. k. to denote the position within the time series. The kill data point corresponds to time tk to  kt.t. where 0  k  (NI). Sometimes the value of variable A at time tk is represented by A(tk). but usually the shorthand notations A(k) or Ak is used. We will assume that the sampling interval is 6t. with no missing data and no changes of 6t within anyone series. The total period of measurements is P  N6t, in the sense that each of the N data points represents a sample within an interval 6t.;In section 2.4.5 we discussed the covariance and the correlation coefficient, which quantify the amount of common variation between two different variables. Extending this idea, we could also ask about the degree of common variation between a variable (A) sampled at time t and that same variable sampled at a later time. tL, where L is the time lag. Such a correlation of a variable with itself is called autocorrelation, RAA(L). Consider a 12 hour time series that has a simple sinusoidal variation of unit amplitude with a 4 hour period. The wave equals 1.0 at regular intervals of I. 5. and 9 h. Also. the wave equals 1.0 at 3, 7, and 11 h. In fact at ANY time, t. the series is perfectly correlated with itself (i.e . has the same value) at exactly times t  4 h. t  8 h. and t  12 h. Similarly, we can show that the wave is negatively correlated with itself at t  2 h, t  6 h. and t  10 h. We have. in essence. just determined the autocorrelation for this series at lags 2,4, 6. 8, 10. and 12 h. If our time series consists of a wave that varies in frequency during the duration of the series. then a wave at t, might be perfectly correlated with itself at t,  4 h, but the value at t2 might not be perfectly correlated with the value at t2  4 h. When averaged over all possible pairs of data points with 4 h lag in this series. the result might NOT give a large correlation value at all. In other words, the autocorrelation measures the persistence of a wave within the whole duration a time or space series. The capability to determine persistent waves or oscillations within a series is particularly valuable because the regular variation might be associated with a physical phenomenon such as an eddy. Alternately, when the autocorrelation becomes close to zero, it tells us that there is a random process (e.g. turbulence) occurring with no persistent or regularlyrecurring structures.