The turbulence in the mixed layer is usually convectively driven, although a nearly wellmixed layer can form in regions of strong winds. Convective sources include heat transfer from a warm ground surface, and radiative cooling from the top of the cloud layer. The fIrst situation creates thermals of warm air rising from the ground, while the second creates thermals of cool air sinking from cloud top. Both can occur simultaneously, particularly when a cool stratocumulus topped mixed layer is being advected over warmer ground. Even when convection is the dominant mechanism, there is usually wind shear across the top of the ML that contributes to the turbulence generation. This freeshear situation is more akin to CAT, and is thought to be associated with the formation and breakdown of waves in the air known as KelvinHelmholtz waves. On initially cloudfree days, however, ML growth is tied to solar heating of the ground. Starting about a half hour after sunrise, a turbulent ML begins to grow in depth. This ML is characterized by intense mixing in a statically unstable situation where thermals of warm air rise from the ground (Fig 1.8). The ML reaches its maximum depth in late afternoon. It grows by entraining, or mixing down into it, the less turbulent air from above.;Fig. 1.8 Idealization of thermals in a mixed layer. Smoke plumes loop up and down in the mixed layer eventually becoming uniformly distributed.;The resulting turbulence tends to mix heat, moisture, and momentum uniformly in the vertical. Pollutants emitted from smoke stacks exhibit a characteristic looping as those portions of the effluent emitted into warm thermals begin to rise (Fig l.8). The resulting profIles of virtual potential temperature, mixing ratio, pollutant concentration, and wind speed frequently are as sketched in Figure 1.9. Virtual potential temperature profiles are nearly adiabatic in the middle portion of the ML. In the surface layer one often finds a superadiabatic layer adjacent to the ground.