uv uw  uv uw vu vv vw uv vv yW (2.9.2);Hence, we need only be concerned with six independent stress components. The convenience of Einsteins summation notation is apparent here. We could easily represent;Hence, we need only be concerned with six independent stress components. The convenience of Einsteins summation notation is apparent here. We could easily representanyone of the components of the matrix on the left by u j  uj . The kinematic Reynolds;anyone of the components of the matrix on the left by u j  uj . The kinematic Reynoldsstress in typical atmospheric surface layers is on the order of 0.05 m2s2. Momentum flux and Reynolds stress are properties of the flow, not of the fluid. This stress is fully described by the matrices above, which contain products of velocities (a flow characteristic) that could apply to any fluid. Such is not the case with viscous;stress in typical atmospheric surface layers is on the order of 0.05 m2s2. Momentum flux and Reynolds stress are properties of the flow, not of the fluid. This stress is fully described by the matrices above, which contain products of velocities (a flow characteristic) that could apply to any fluid. Such is not the case with viscousshear stresses. Although the effect of u. u.  is like a stress, the Reynolds stress is not a 1 ) true stress (force per unit area) as is the viscous shear stress.;Viscous stress exists when there are shearing motions in the fluid. The motion can be laminar or turbulent. When one portion of a fluid moves, the intermolecular forces tend to drag adjacent fluid molecules in the same direction (Fig 2.l6j). The strength of these intermolecular forces depend on the nature of the fluid molasses has stronger forces than water, which in turn has stronger forces than air. A measure of these forces is the viscosity. The result of this stress is a deformation of the fluid (Fig. 2. 16k). These viscous forces can act in any of the three cartesian directions on any of the three faces of our conceptual cube (Fig. 2.160. Thus, the viscous stress is also a tensor with nine components. Like the Reynolds stress, the viscousstress tensor is symmetric, leaving six independent components. A fluid for which the viscous stress is linearly dependent on the shear is said to be a Newtonian fluid. The stress, t., for a Newtonian fluid is usually given by 1);( au. au. ( 2) au f..  1J  LL   k.. lJ ax. ax, Ii 3 ax lJ J I k (2.9.3);( au. au. ( 2) au f..  1J  LL   k.. lJ ax. ax, Ii 3 ax lJ J I k (2.9.3)where B is the bulk viscosity coefficient (near zero for most gases) and  is the dynamic;where B is the bulk viscosity coefficient (near zero for most gases) and  is the dynamicviscosity coefficient. We can interpret too as the force per unit area in the x.direction lJ I acting on the face that is normal to the xdirection. J The viscous stress can be put into kinematic form by dividing by the mean density of the fluid. A corresponding kinematic viscosity is defined by v   I p. The standard