For a time series, L j t is the time lag, while for a space series L  r  j M represents the spatial separation, r, between the two measurements. The structure function uses the difference, rather than the product, of two different points in the series. The structure function has units of A2 like variance, rather than being dimensionless like the autocorrelation. For zero lag or zero separation distance, the structure function is identically zero. As L or r increases, so does the structure function for most turbulent flows. Within the inertial subrange of turbulence, similarity arguments (similarity theory is reviewed in Chapter 9) suggest that;(8.3.1 b)where c A2 is the structure function parameter for variable A. The four most;where c A2 is the structure function parameter for variable A. The four mostcommon structure function parameters are crl for temperature. CV2 for velocity. c q2 for;common structure function parameters are crl for temperature. CV2 for velocity. c q2 formoisture, and c f2 for the index of refraction, nref. These parameters .are not nre dimensionless, but have units determined by the units of A and r to make (8.3.1 b) dimensionally consistent (see example below). Remote sensors such as radar (microwaves) or sodar (sound) can receive returns from clear air because some of the transmitted signal is scattered off of refractive index variations in the atmosphere. For example, the radar reflectivity T (radar cross section per unit volume) in clear air (no rain or other hydrometeors) is;, 11  0.38 c nrer2 R 13 (8.3.1c);, 11  0.38 c nrer2 R 13 (8.3.1c)where AR is the wavelength of the radar. Since the index of refraction is related to;where AR is the wavelength of the radar. Since the index of refraction is related totemperature. moisture. and pressure to varying degrees depending on the type of remote sensor. equations can be derived relating c nref2 to cT2. c q2 and CV2 (see review by;Lenschow. 1986). Thus. the magnitude of the returned signal T gives cnref2 from;(8.3.1c), which yields estimates of cT2. cq2 and Cy2 Sample profiles of CT2 and Cy 2