BOUNDARY CONDmONS 257temperature (in the range of 280 K at the surface to about 245 K at the top of the atmosphere). Since there are no other bodies near the earth that contribute significantly to the radiation budget, we need only be concerned with those two bands.;The intensity of incoming solar radiation at the top of the atmosphere is called the solar irradiance, S. Although it was formerly known as the solar constant, this term is being used less frequently because of the realization that the solar irradiance is not constant  ranging from about 1360 to 1380 Wm2 We will use a value of S  1370 Wm2 (Kyle, et al., 1985), or S  1.127 Kms1 in kinematic units, where the density and specific heat of air in the boundary layer is used for the conversion to kinematic units. Some of this radiation is attenuated by scattering, absorption, and reflection from clouds on the way down to the surface. When the sun is lower in the I sky, the radiation will also be attenuated by its longer path through the atmosphere en route to the surface. Define T K as the net sky transmissivity, or the fraction of solar radiation that makes it;The intensity of incoming solar radiation at the top of the atmosphere is called the solar irradiance, S. Although it was formerly known as the solar constant, this term is being used less frequently because of the realization that the solar irradiance is not constant  ranging from about 1360 to 1380 Wm2 We will use a value of S  1370 Wm2 (Kyle, et al., 1985), or S  1.127 Kms1 in kinematic units, where the density and specific heat of air in the boundary layer is used for the conversion to kinematic units. Some of this radiation is attenuated by scattering, absorption, and reflection from clouds on the way down to the surface. When the sun is lower in the I sky, the radiation will also be attenuated by its longer path through the atmosphere en route to the surface. Define T K as the net sky transmissivity, or the fraction of solar radiation that makes itto the surface. Define I as the solar elevation angle namely, the angle of the sun above the local horizon. One simple parameterization (Burridge and Gadd, 1974) for the transmissivity is;(7.3.la)where 0c represents the cloudcover fraction, and where subscripts H, M, and L signify high, middle, and low clouds respectively. When the sun is directly overhead and there are no clouds, T K  0.80 . IT the sun is overhead but there are overcast clouds at all three levels, then T K  0.086. The solar elevation angle is also important because when it is less than 90, the radiation that does reach the surface is spread out over a larger area, reducing the radiation per unit surface area by a factor of sinll. The expression for downwelling radiation at the surface is approximately;K.!..  STKsin I 0for daytime (Le., sinll positive);for daytime (Le., sinll positive)for nighttime (Le., sinll negative);....    ,. 8,  cos .... 8, col TC l.  (7.3.lc);....    ,. 8,  cos .... 8, col TC l.  (7.3.lc)where  and A.e are the latitude (positive north) and longitude (positive west) in radians,