MEAN BOUNDARY LAYER CHARACfERISTICS 7is a measure of the intensity of turbulence. Thus, Taylors hypothesis should be satisfactory when the turbulence intensity is small relative to the mean wind speed.;Buoyancy is one of the driving forces for turbulence in the BL. Thermals of warm air rise because they are less dense than the surrounding air, and hence positively buoyant. Virtual temperature is a popular variable for these studies because it is the temperature that dry air must have to equal the density of moist air at the same pressure. Thus, variations of virtual temperature can be studied in place of variations in density. Water vapor is less dense than dry air thus, moist unsaturated air is more buoyant than dry air of the same temperature. The virtual temperature of unsaturated moist air is therefore always greater than the absolute air temperature, T. Liquid water, however, is more dense than dry air, making cloudy air heavier or less buoyant than the corresponding cloudfree air. The suspension of cloud droplets in an air parcel is called liquid water loading, and it always reduces the virtual temperature. Virtual Dotential temperatures are analogous to potential temperatures in that they remove the temperature variation caused by changes in pressure altitude of an air parcel. Turbulence includes vertical movement of air, making a variable such as virtual potential temperature not just attractive but almost necessary.;(1.5.la)where rsat is the watervapor saturation mixing ratio of the air parcel, and rL is the liquid water mixing ratio. In (1.S.1a) the potential temperatures are in units of K, and the mixing ratios are in units of gig. For unsaturated air with mixing ratio r, the virtual potential temperature is;where rsat is the watervapor saturation mixing ratio of the air parcel, and rL is the liquid water mixing ratio. In (1.S.1a) the potential temperatures are in units of K, and the mixing ratios are in units of gig. For unsaturated air with mixing ratio r, the virtual potential temperature isav  a( 1  0.61r);(I.5.1c)where P is air pressure and Po is a reference pressure. Usually, Po is set to 100 kPa