MIXED LAYER 481appear to have the same definition, only the subset of buoyancy flux that is negative is used in BN, and the remainder is used in Bp. The critical question is how to partition the buoyancy flux profile into its production and consumption components. One way is to focus on just the positive and negative portions of the total buoyancy flux profile (Fig 11.33a). Randall (1984) has called this the Eulerian partitioning approach. Alternative geometries have also been suggested (Fig 11.33bc) based on process partitioning of updrafts vs. downdrafts (Randall, 1984), and some parameterizations can be used for cloud topped MLs (Fig 11.33d). The correct answer has yet to be pinned down, but luckily most partitioning schemes yield similar answers for the entrainment velocity. To close this equation and solve for entrainment velocity, we must make a few additional assumptions or parameterizations. Quasisteady state is often assumed, allowing us to set St  O. The integrated TKE equation now becomes;BN  Bp  MP  Dis (11.4.3c)where MP and BN are usually negative. The buoyant production term, Bp, is known;from the partitioning described above, and is equal to (g9) times the production area assketched in Fig 11.33. When clouds are present, this production area should include the effects of radiation divergence (Stage and Businger, 1981). The mechanical production term, MP, is often parameterized in terms of forcings, such as the shear or u. at the surface and the shear U across the top of the ML. The dissipation rate, Dis, is often assumed to be proportional to the total production rate (Bp  MP). Between 80 to 99 of the TKE produced is dissipated (Stull, 1976 Stage and Businger, 1981). At this point, we know all of the terms on the right of (11.4.3c), and can solve for the value of BN Knowing BN the consumption area of the buoyancy flux profile (Fig 11.33) can be;sketched in Fig 11.33. When clouds are present, this production area should include the effects of radiation divergence (Stage and Businger, 1981). The mechanical production term, MP, is often parameterized in terms of forcings, such as the shear or u. at the surface and the shear U across the top of the ML. The dissipation rate, Dis, is often assumed to be proportional to the total production rate (Bp  MP). Between 80 to 99 of the TKE produced is dissipated (Stull, 1976 Stage and Businger, 1981). At this point, we know all of the terms on the right of (11.4.3c), and can solve for the value of BN Knowing BN the consumption area of the buoyancy flux profile (Fig 11.33) can befound from consumption area  BNI (g9). Using the geometry assumed earlier in the;the ML w9 . The entrainment velocity can then be found from the relationship v Zi between temperature jump and entrained heat fluxw  e (11.4.3d)