Fairweather cumulus clouds can be divided into three classes based on their dynamics (see Fig 13.11) forced, active, and passive (Stull, 1985). This classification is different than the morphological categorization based on cloud shape and appearance. The total cumulus cloud cover (for lowaltitude clouds, JCL) consists of the sum of the covers;Fairweather cumulus clouds can be divided into three classes based on their dynamics (see Fig 13.11) forced, active, and passive (Stull, 1985). This classification is different than the morphological categorization based on cloud shape and appearance. The total cumulus cloud cover (for lowaltitude clouds, JCL) consists of the sum of the coversofforced (Jcp) active (JCA) and passive (Jcp) cloud covers; ..  ....  ..  ..  .. 6 ..  ......... tr., ... .. .. (( . f Passv.;Fig. 13.11 Classes of fairweather cumulus clouds. (After Stull, 1985).;Forced Clouds. These clouds form in the tops of ML thermals, and exist only while there is continued forcing from the parent thermal. Often, these clouds form in the negatively buoyant portion of the thermal that is overshooting into the capping inversion (entrainment zone). In spite of the latent heat release during condensation, there is insufficient heating for these clouds to become positively buoyant. As a result, the clouds behave as quasipassive tracers of the top of the thermal. The cloud top never reaches its LFC. Morphologically, these clouds are very shallow and often flat looking, and are usually classified as cumulus humilis. All of the air rising in the thermal up through the cloud base continues circulating through the cloud and remains within the ML (Le., there is no venting of ML air out of the ML). In conditions of light wind shear, air in the cloud diverges from the center toward the lateral edges, where descending return flow into the ML is associated with droplet evaporation. In stronger wind shear, the cloud often appears as a breaking wave, with updrafts on the upshear side, and the return circulation and downdrafts on the downshear side.