Occasionally, tethered balloons are flown with instruments deployed at a variety of heights along the tether cable. Although these offer the advantage of simultaneous measurements at a number of heights, they are more difficult to deploy and pull back in.;A radiosonde is an expendable instrument and transmitter package attached below a freeflying helium balloon that measures temperature, humidity, and pressure. Rawinsondes also provide wind information, either by a tracking antenna on the ground, or via LORAN or OMEGA receiving systems in the instrument package itself. Observations from radiosondes or rawinsondes are called raobs. Special balloons and instrument packages are designed for boundary layer experiments, where the balloon rises more slowly, and the instrument package makes measurements at more heights within the boundary layer. Although each balloon package is not too expensive, the cost during a field program can be surprisingly expensive if balloons are launched frequently. For boundary layer work, the raob is difficult to utilize because it is often an unrepresentative point measurement that provides neither a time nor a space average. These balloons drift away from the launch site and rise until they burst, allowing the instrument package to parachute to the ground.;A special class of free balloon is the constant pressure balloon. Instead of being made of latex like radiosonde balloons, these are made of an unstretchable material such as mylar plastic. These balloons are often constructed in the shape of a tetrahedron  hence the name tetroon. When inflated and properly balanced, the balloon will rise to an altitude where the air density matches the balloon system overall density, allowing the balloon to theoretically stay at a constant (pressure) altitude. In reality, the balloon will often make large amplitude vertical oscillations about its mean altitude. Sometimes instrument systems are suspended from the balloon, while for other experiments a radar reflector or transmitter is suspended, to allow the balloon to be tracked for tracer dispersion studies.;A variety of aircraft ranging from model drones, ultralights, gliders, motorgliders, light single and multiengine propeller aircraft, multiengine turboprop, multiengine jet, and cabinclass civilian and military transports have been used as platforms for boundary layer study. Typically, instruments are mounted on special booms projecting forward from the nose or the wings of the aircraft, in order to get the sensors out of the flow disturbed by the aircraft itself. Some sensors are built into the radome, while others use remote sensing techniques to detect the flow in front of the aircraft. The larger aircraft allow onboard computer equipment to process the data, and airborne scientists can view realtime displays to help direct the experiment. Turbulence sensors must have a very fast