STABLE BOUNDARY LAYER 529number was lowered, dynamic instability induced, and turbulence was generated during portions of the wave cycle, while during other portions turbulence was suppressed. Weinstock (1987) also suggested that some waves can modify the SBL to the point where periods of static instability occur, leading to bursts of convective turbulence during portions of the wave cycle. Waves can be generated by wind shear and by impulses (Gedzelman, 1983). At heights where the Richardson number is small, wind shear can generate KH waves. These heights are called the critical levels. The KH waves excite other internal gravity waves that propagate elsewhere in the SBL. Nonnally, such shearinduced waves have a phase speed equal to the mean wind speed at their critical level. It is possible for multiple critical levels to fonn, generating a variety of waves that coexist and interact within the SBL. Any shear waves that reflect off the ground ryack to their respective critical level are absorbed there. Finnigan, et aI. (1984) observed dramatic sequences of large amplitude shear waves at the BAO tower, and computed critical levels at 550 and 650 m for those cases. Hooke and Jones (1986) found that waverelated turbulence can fonn in thin sheets, perhaps where the Richardson number is small. Impulsegenerated waves have a high coherency, are virtually nondispersive, and are associated with some specific event such as an explosion, thunderstonn, or flow over an obstacle (Gedzelman, 1983). Waves propagate away from this event analogous to water waves propagating away from a pebble thrown into a pond. Often these waves have a long wavelength and large period. As these wave propagate through the SBL, they can induce large displacements of SBL air that modify the shear and stability. For SBLs that are strongly turbulent, waves are subjected to strong nonlinear interactions with the turbulence. It is an academic question whether such flows should be classified as stablystratified turbulence, or stronglynonlinear waves. Any waves generated elsewhere that propagate into the region of strong turbulence will be absorbed by the turbulence, and the wave energy will be converted into TKE.;12.6.2 Analysis Techniques and Governing Equations;We will start with a brief review of linear wave theory, and progress into wave turbulence interaction. For more details, see Finnigan, et al. (1984), Holton (1972) or Gossard and Hooke (1975).;Chapter 3, we can (I) expand each dependent variable into a basic state (, usually assumed as a constant reference background state) and a perturbation wave part () (2) assume that the perturbations are small and (3) eliminate tenns consisting of products of perturbation variables because scale analysis shows they are smaller than the other tenns. This process is known as linearizing the governing equations, because the only tenns that are left contain basic state variables, or products of the basic itate and a single linear perturbation variable. For many special cases, wave solutions can be found