A variety of quasiportable surface stations exist that can be deployed for field experiments. A typical implementation will consist of temperature, humidity, rain, pressure, and radiation measurements at z  2 m, and a 10 m mast to measure wind speed and direction. Some stations have additional sensors to measure turbulent fluxes directly, while others make measurements of mean variables at two or more heights to infer fluxes (see Section 10.7). Data is transmitted to a central recording site via satellite, radio, or telephone lines.;Tall expensive towers have been erected at a few sites for permanent use. Examples include the 213 m tower near Cabauw, about 50 km southeast of the North Sea coastline in The Netherlands. Another is the 300 m Boulder Atmospheric Observatory (BAO) tower in Colorado, about 25 km east of the Rocky Mountains. Occasionally, existing television transmitting towers are instrumented, such as the 444 m KYTV tower in Oklahoma City. Towers are useful for studying the nighttime and early morning boundary layers that are shallow. These are large structures with builtin elevators and many support guy wires. Because the tower is so large, it disturbs the flow close to it and downwind of it. For this reason, these towers have large horizontal booms that project horizontally away from the tower at different heights, upon which sensors are mounted. At each height, there are often booms projecting in 2 or 3 different compass directions, with the expectation that at least one of the booms will be in the upwind direction. Permanent buildings housing the communications, data logging, maintenance, and computer facilities are sometimes built near the tower.;A kytoon is an aerodynamically shaped heliumfilled plastic balloon that is tethered to a winch on the ground. Instead of being blown down by the wind, the shape allows it to soar upward like a kite  hence the name kytoon. In typical applications, a sensor package is suspended a short distance below the balloon on lines different from the tether line. To make measurements at a variety of heights, the winch is used to draw in or feed out more line until the desired height is reached. The balloon is kept at each height of interest for 5 to 30 minutes to get a statistically stable sample, before changing its altitude. Also, the balloon can make measurements while it is rising or descending, allowing soundings to be recorded. In some cases, the instrument package sends its signals down electrical wires attached to the tether cable, while for other kytoons a transmitter radios the information to the ground. Although tethers on the order of 1.5 to 2 km are available, flight regUlations sometimes restrict deployment to altitudes below about 800 m. Kytoons are much more portable than tall towers, and can easily be used at temporary field experiments, but they are limited to light winds.