Patchy Turbulence in Equilibrium with the Surface. We have already seen in Fig 12.3 an example of timeaveraged turbulence variables. during which the SBL might not have been turbulent at all times or at all heights during the averaging period. Nevertheless. we can often utilize the continuouscontiguous turbulence parameterizations described above to model this timeaveraged SBL. One phenomenon sometimes seen in the SBL is an occasional bursting of turbulence. It is speculated that in non turbulent SBLs. wind shears can increase because of the dynamic forcings and the lack of mixing. Eventually. the shears are great enough to trigger turbulence (Le . the Richardson number is low enough). This burst of turbulence causes vertical mixing of both heat and momentum. causing shears to decrease and the Richardson number to increase. Eventually the shears are too weak to continue to support turbulence. and turbulence ceases. During the resulting quiescent period. shears can again build to the point of another turbulent burst. Such a scenario can also occur with discontinuous turbulence. described next.;Discontinuous Turbulence. In situations where turbulence aloft is disconnected with the surface. it has been shown in Chapter 9 that local xless similarity scaling can be used (Wyngaard. 1973 Nieuwstadt. 1984). Turbulence variables are consistent with, and scale to. each other. but do not scale with surface forcings. In order to use this approach. one must flrst measure a subset of the turbulence variables aloft. against which the remaining variables can be related. Although this is a useful diagnostic tool to relate variables within the turbulent layer. it precludes forecasts or parameterizations. The assumption of constant Richardson number is often made with zIess scaling, although as shown below the Richardson number is rarely constant with time or location. The Richardson number is one of the indicators for the location of turbulence within the SBL. Fig 12.9 (Andre and Mahrt, 1982) shows the potential temperature and wind profiles for one case study, and also shows the corresponding vertical proflle of Richardson number. Regions of Richardson number less than 0.5 are shaded. and;Fig. 12.9 Various depths of the nocturnal boundary layer based on wind and potential temperature for Wangara Day 14 at 0300 LST. (bl Corre s ndin Richardson number profile. After Andre and Mahrt, 1982).