There appears to be a distinct lack of windspeed variation in Fig 2.1 having time periods of about 30 min to 1 h. The slow variation of the mean wind speed from 6 to 5 mls over the 2 h period was already discussed. Shorter time periods were what we associated with microscale turbulence. The lack of variation at the intennediate time or space scales has been called the spectral gap. A separation of scales is evident in Fig 2.2, where the spectral gap appears as the large valley separating the microscale from the synoptic scale peaks. Motions to the left of the gap are said to be associated with the mean flow. Motions to the right constitute turbulence. The center of the gap is near the onehour time period. It is no accident that the response time used in Chapter 1 to define the BL is one hour. Implicit in the definition of the BL is the concept that turbulence is the primary agent for effecting changes in the BL. Hence, the spectral gap provides a means to separate the turbulent from the nonturbulent influences on the BL (in the microscale sense). For some flows there might not be a spectral gap. For example, larger cumulus clouds act like large eddies with time scales on the order of an hour. Consequently, a spectrum of wind speed made in the cloud layer might not exhibit a vivid separation of scales. Most analyses of turbulence rely on the separation of scales to simplify the problem hence, cloudfilled flow regimes might be difficult to properly describe. Many of the operational numerical weather prediction models use grid spacings or wavelength cutoffs that fall within the spectral gap. This means that largerscale motions can be explicitly resolved and deterministically forecast. The smallerscale motions, namely turbulence, are not modeled directly. Rather, the effects of those subgrid scales on the larger scales are approximated. These smallersize motions are said to be parameterized by subgridscale stochastic (statistical) approximations or models.;There is a very easy way to isolate the largescale variations from the turbulent ones. By averaging our wind speed measurements over a period of 30 minutes to one hour, we can eliminate or average out the positive and negative deviations of the turbulentvelocities about the mean. Once we have the mean velocity, V, for any time period, we can subtract it from the actual instantaneous velocity, U, to give us just the turbulent part, u;velocities about the mean. Once we have the mean velocity, V, for any time period, we can subtract it from the actual instantaneous velocity, U, to give us just the turbulent part, uu  U  iJ (2.3a);The existence of a spectral gap allows us to partition the flow field in this manner. We can think of u as the gust that is superimposed on the mean wind. It represents;The existence of a spectral gap allows us to partition the flow field in this manner. We can think of u as the gust that is superimposed on the mean wind. It representsthe part of the flow that varies with periods shorter than about one hour. The mean, D. represents the part that varies with a period longer than about one hour.