Nonpassive pollutants may react with other constituents during the night to create compounds that were not originally emitted from the ground. Sometimes gaseous chemicals may react to form aerosols or particulates which can precipitate out. The RL often exists for a while in the mornings before being entrained into the new ML. During this time solar radiation may trigger photochemical reactions among the constituents in the RL. Moisture often behaves as a passive tracer. Each day, more moisture may be evaporated into the ML and will be retained in the RL. During succeeding days, the re entrainment of the moist air into the ML might allow cloud formation to occur where it otherwise might not. Variables such as virtual potential temperature usually decrease slowly during the night because of radiation divergence. This cooling rate is on the order of 1 Cd. The cooling rate is moreorless uniform throughout the depth of the RL, thus allowing the RL virtual potential temperature profile to remain nearly adiabatic. When the top of the next days ML reaches the base of the RL, the ML growth becomes very rapid. The RL does not have direct contact with the ground. During the night, the nocturnal stable layer gradually increases in thickness by modifying the bottom of the RL. Thus, the remainder of the RL is not affected by turbulent transport of surfacerelated properties and hence does not really fall within our definition of a boundary layer. Nevertheless, we will include the RL in our studies as an exception to the rule.;As the night progresses, the bottom portion of the residual layer is transformed by its contact with the ground into a stable boundary layer. This is characterized by statically stable air with weaker, sporadic turbulence. Although the wind at ground level frequently becomes lighter or calm at night, the winds aloft may accelerate to supergeostrophic speeds in a phenomenon that is called the lowlevel jet or nocturnal jet. The statically stable air tends to suppress turbulence, while the developing nocturnal jet enhances wind shears that tend to generate turbulence. As a result, turbulence sometimes occurs in relatively short bursts that can cause mixing throughout the SBL. During the non turbulent periods, the flow becomes essentially decoupled from the surface. As opposed to the daytime ML which has a clearly defined top, the SBL has a poorly defined top that smoothly blends into the RL above (Fig 1.10 and 1.11). The top of the ML is defined as the base of the stable layer, while the SBL top is defined as the top of the stable layer or the height where turbulence intensity is a small fraction of its surface value. Pollutants emitted into the stable layer disperse relatively little in the vertical. They disperse more rapidly, or fan out, in the horizontal. This behavior is calledanning, and is sketched as the bottom smoke plume in Fig 1.10. Sometimes at night when winds are lighter, the effluent meanders left and right as it drifts downwind. Winds exhibit a very complex behavior at night. Just above ground level the wind speed often becomes light or even calm. At altitudes on the order of 200 m above ground, the wind may reach 1030 mls in the nocturnal jet. Another few hundred meters above