1) Confmn that 2 u.q dqdX. is a production tenn and not a loss tenn for equation J J (4.3.2). Hint, review section 2.7 and Fig 2.13. 2) Given values for the viscous dissipation rate of velocity variance (see section 4.3.1),;1) Confmn that 2 u.q dqdX. is a production tenn and not a loss tenn for equation J J (4.3.2). Hint, review section 2.7 and Fig 2.13. 2) Given values for the viscous dissipation rate of velocity variance (see section 4.3.1),express that rate as a heating rate aeat for air, and compare its magnitude. with the magnitudes of other tenns in (3.4.5b). Hint, remember that viscosity dissipates turbulent motions into heat 3) Given the general form for the momentum flux equation (4.4.1b), write out the equations for the following components;express that rate as a heating rate aeat for air, and compare its magnitude. with the magnitudes of other tenns in (3.4.5b). Hint, remember that viscosity dissipates turbulent motions into heat 3) Given the general form for the momentum flux equation (4.4.1b), write out the equations for the following componentsa) uw b)vw c) uv ;4) Given the momentum flux equation (4.4.1b), show how to transfonn that equation;4) Given the momentum flux equation (4.4.1b), show how to transfonn that equationinto an equation for velocity variance  . I 5) Show how the two viscosity terms in the equation just before (4.4.1 a) can be;into an equation for velocity variance  . I 5) Show how the two viscosity terms in the equation just before (4.4.1 a) can bemanipulated into the fonn shown in (4.4.1a). Hint, start with au.uk)ax2 . I J 6) a) Given the data from Figs 3.13.6 of chapter 3, calculate w. for each of the flights. ML ML b) Also calculate t., 9. ,and q. . 7) In Fig 3.1a of chapter 3 are plotted two data points at each height. One data point represents heat flux and one represents moisture flux. Using the values from this;manipulated into the fonn shown in (4.4.1a). Hint, start with au.uk)ax2 . I J 6) a) Given the data from Figs 3.13.6 of chapter 3, calculate w. for each of the flights. ML ML b) Also calculate t., 9. ,and q. . 7) In Fig 3.1a of chapter 3 are plotted two data points at each height. One data point represents heat flux and one represents moisture flux. Using the values from thisfigure, calculate w 9 v  for each of those heights, and plot the result. Do NOT;figure, calculate w 9 v  for each of those heights, and plot the result. Do NOTnonnalize your results by the surface value. 8) Given Fig 4.13, calculate the value of enns VI and IX of equation (4.4.1 a). By comparing these values with the magnitudes of the other tenns, are we justified in neglecting them to derive (4.4.1b)? 9) Some of the tenns in (4.4.1 a) involve correlations with pressure perturbation. Discliss how you would design an instrument for measuring p, and what some of the difficulties might be. lO) Many of the prognostic equations in this chapter include triplecorrelation tenns such . as w w 9 . Discuss the steps (but do not do the complete derivation) you would take;nonnalize your results by the surface value. 8) Given Fig 4.13, calculate the value of enns VI and IX of equation (4.4.1 a). By comparing these values with the magnitudes of the other tenns, are we justified in neglecting them to derive (4.4.1b)? 9) Some of the tenns in (4.4.1 a) involve correlations with pressure perturbation. Discliss how you would design an instrument for measuring p, and what some of the difficulties might be. lO) Many of the prognostic equations in this chapter include triplecorrelation tenns such . as w w 9 . Discuss the steps (but do not do the complete derivation) you would taketo derive a prognostic equation for Cl(w w 9)at . Hint, review the general;to derive a prognostic equation for Cl(w w 9)at . Hint, review the generalmethodology used to derive equations for a(w 9 )at.