Over both land and oceans, the general nature of the boundary layer is to be thinner in highpressure regions than in lowpressure regions (Fig 1.6). The subsidence and low level horizontal divergence associated with synoptic high pressure moves boundary layer air out of the high towards lower pressure regions. The shallower depths are often associated with cloudfree regions. If clouds are present, they are often fairweather cumulus or stratocumulus clouds. In low pressure regions the upward motions carry boundarylayer air away from the ground to large altitudes throughout the troposphere. It is difficult to define a boundary layer top for these situations. Cloud base is often used as an arbitrary cutoff for boundary layer studies in these cases. Thus, the region studied by boundary layer meteorologists may actually be thinner in lowpressure regions than in high pressure ones (see Fig 1.6). Over land surfaces in high pressure regions the boundary layer has a well defined structure that evolves with the diurnal cycle (Fig 1.7). The three major components of this structure are the mixed layer, the residual layer, and the stable boundary layer. When clouds are present in the mixed layer, it is further subdivided into a cloud layer and a subcloud layer. The sUrface layer is the region at the bottom of the boundary layer where turbulent fluxes and stress vary by less than 10 of their magnitude. Thus, the bottom 10 of the boundary layer is called the surface layer, regardless of whether it is part of a mixed layer or stable boundary layer. Finally, a thin layer called a microlayer or interfacial layer has been identified in the lowest few centimeters of air, where molecular transport dominates over turbulent transport. The following shorthand notatiol is often used for the various parts of the boundary layer. For the sake of completeness, some additional terms are listed here that will not be discussed until later BL Boundary layer (also known as the planetary boundary layer, PBL, or the