. Example of mean profiles of specific humidity, potential temperature, and TKE using LES, for 5.54 h into the forecast for Wangara Day 33. Abscissa is arbitrary in this sketch. (After Deardorff,1974).;. Example of mean profiles of specific humidity, potential temperature, and TKE using LES, for 5.54 h into the forecast for Wangara Day 33. Abscissa is arbitrary in this sketch. (After Deardorff,1974).eel;Neutral Boundary Layer. Mason and Thomson (1987) have used LES to simulate structures in neutral boundary layers. Their model shows that smaller eddies dominate near the surface, while larger eddies are more important aloft. These large eddies are often elongated in the direction of the shear vector.;Stable Boundary Layer. Large eddies are suppressed by static stabilities, leaving only the smaller eddies that cannot be resolved by a LES model (as of the date this book was written). Thus, we will have to wait for better computers before we can expect successful LES of the SBL.;When a fluid such as water is used to simulate atmospheric turbulence, one must take care to insure that the simulation has the same dimensionless scales as the atmosphere (Willis and Deardorff, 1974 Deardorff and Yoon, 1984). The atmosphere is a high Reynolds number flow  so high that the Reynolds number is not a governing parameter. However, the dimensions of some laboratory tanks are small enough that the Reynolds number is not very large  meaning that viscosity causes the tank flow to differ from the atmospheric flow. Other numbers, such as the Rayleigh, Nussult, Richardson and Prandtl numbers should be considered. The surface heating rate or mechanical stirring rate must be chosen to make the proper convective or friction velocity scales. respectively. given the higher density of the water.;Convective Turbulence A large number of simulations of convective mixed layers have been performed by Willis and Deardorff (1974 Deardorff and Willis. 1985. 1987) using water as the working medium. They used a tank that was approximately cubical. with dimensions of about 1 m on each side. The tank would initially be filled with cooler water on the bottom. smoothly varying to warmer water at the top. thereby