MEASUREMENT AND SIMULATION 417response, because typical aircraft speeds are 50 to 100 mls. Typical boundary layer flight patterns consist of level horizontal flight legs of 10 to 20 minute duration in order to get a large enough sample to generate stable turbulence statistics. These legs are flown either over fixed tracks on the ground, or are flown in L patterns with one leg parallel to the current wind direction and the other leg in the cross wind direction. In addition to legs flown at a variety of heights in the boundary layer, some ascent or descent soundings are made that yield much more representative vertical profiles than raob soundings. As described in section 10.1, it might be impossible to fly a pattern of the proper length to gather data with robust statistics. Flight legs that are too short have potentially large sampling errors, yielding large scatter in the data. Flight legs that are long enough for stable statistics can consume so much flight time that stationarity within the BL might be violated. The way around this problem is to fly a faster aircraft, but the airborne sensors must have a correspondingly faster response, which might be difficult or impossible.;Because fastresponse turbulence data is not routinely collected by most operational weather services, it is necessary to conduct special field programs. Some of the early experiments focused on surface layer data over flat uniform terrain or oceans. Later experiments probed higher in the boundary layer andor picked a nonuniform site or shorelines. Table 101 summarizes the major experiments that were either completely devoted to boundary layer measurements, or had a major boundary layer subprogram. Many of these experiments have resulted in the publication of data books, which are available from the lead principal investigator, the sponsor, or government printing offices. These field experiment names appear frequently in the literature, because they provide the data set against which theories and models are tested.;Table 101. Chronological summary of field programs that gathered boundary layer data. Abbreviations used for data collected Aaircraft, Braobs, Cchemistry, Ddispersion, Esurface energy budget, Fturbulent fluxes, G(below) ground  soil data, ggeostrophic, Hhydrologic  precipitation, Kradiation, K2kytoons, Llidar, Oocean, Ppressure, pvertical prOfile, Rradar, Ssodar, ssurface, T temperature, TKEturbulence, Uuniform land, Vwincl, WXweather  clouds. (  incomplete information)