w 8 (I( mls)  0 0.0726 0.0160 0.0169 0.0 0.0u w (m2s2)  0 0.0802 0.0634 0.0644 0.0 0.0;Discussion of part (b) These flux profiles are plotted in Figs 6.10 c  d. In addition to the turbulent fluxes in these figures, the molecular surface fluxes are also plotted. The total flux at any height is the sum of the turbulent and molecular fluxes, as indicated by the solid lines. It is this total flux that is usually plotted as the effective flux in the meteorological literature (see Chapter 7). The heat flux profIle shows the expected decrease of flux with height characteristic of convective mixed layers, with a negative value in the entrainment zone. The momentum flux profile is negative at all heights, implying a loss of momentum down to the ground.;Like other turbulence closure schemes, a parameterization must be devised for the unknowns the Cij coefficients. Two closure methods have been used in the literature an apriori method that utilizes knowledge or assumptions about the turbulence spectrum or about the frequency distribution of turbulent velocities and a responsive approach that allows the transilient coefficients to change in response to changes in the mean flow. The apriori method is used with the spectral diffusivity nonlocal closure described at the end of this Chapter. The responsive approach will be described here. The underlying concept behind the responsive closure is that if the fluid is made statically or dynamically unstable. then turbulence will form to partially undo the instability by mixing. This is analogous to LeChateliers Principle of chemistry. This principle is carried into the numerical implementation of transilient turbulence theory, as sketched in the time line of Fig 6.11. Each time step is split into two parts. one part that includes all the non turbulent dynamics. thermodynamics. boundary conditions, and internal (body) forcings. The second part is where the transilient turbulence closure algorithm responds to the instabilities in the mean flow field by causing mixing, where the amount of mixing is given by transilient coefficients that are parameterized to (partially) undo the mean flow instabilities. This two step process was illustrated in the previous example. where the surface fluxes were first applied to destabilize the flow. and then the transilient mixing was applied. The following responsive parameterization (Stull and Driedonks, 1987) for Cij is based on a dimensionless mixing potential between grid points i and j. Yij;Y.. I) IIYII for it j (6.8.6a)