The major conclusion from the Ekman solution is that friction reduces the boundary layer wind speed below geostrophic, and causes it to cross the isobars from high towards low pressure. In a synoptic situation where the isobars are curved, such as a low or high pressure system, the crossisobaric component of flow near the surface causes convergence or divergence, respectively. Hence, mass continuity requires that there be rising air in low pressure systems, and descending air in highs. The process of inducing vertical motions by boundary layer friction is called Ekman pumping.;Ocean. The ocean drift current is driven by the wind stress at the surface, neglecting pressure gradients in the ocean. Hence, the equations of motion reduce to;2 (6.4.6f) feU K d V m dZ 2;This time, let us choose a coordinate system with the xaxis aligned with the surfacestress, and z positive up. Thus, the four boundary conditions become KmdUdZ  u.2;stress, and z positive up. Thus, the four boundary conditions become KmdUdZ  u.2at Z  0, dVdz  0 at z  0, U  0 as z  00, and V  0 as z  00. Thus, the current is assumed to go to zero deep in the ocean. In the equations above,  and u;at Z  0, dVdz  0 at z  0, U  0 as z  00, and V  0 as z  00. Thus, the current is assumed to go to zero deep in the ocean. In the equations above,  and urefer to their ocean values, where Pwateruwate  surface stress  PairUair 2 . The solution is;V 0  (K,), ,y ,i. (V t) (6.4.6g);V 0  (K,), ,y ,i. (V t) (6.4.6g)where  and IE now apply to ocean values. This solution gives a surface current that is 45 to the right of the surface stress, making it parallel to the geostrophic wind in the atmosphere. Based on typical values of eddy viscosity in the air and ocean, the magnitude of the surface drift current is roughly G30. Deeper in the ocean the current reduces in speed, and turns to the right as shown in Fig 6.3b. This causes horizontal convergence in the ocean under atmospheric regions of horizontal divergence, and vice versa. Hence, we expect downwelling water movement under synoptic high pressure systems, and upwelling under lows.