MIXED LAYER 477flow, and forces air to flow over its top, analogous to air flow over a mountain (Fig 11.32b). The result can be the same namely, mountaintype waves can be generated. Such waves have be used by glider pilots, who have named them thermal waves or convection waves (Clarke, et aI., 1986 Kuettner, et aI., 1987). These convection waves have a horizontal wavelength of 5 to 15 krn, a vertical motion amplitude of 1 to 4 ms, and can extend upwards throughout the troposphere if the static stability is favorable. A 900 direction change in the wind shear vector near Zj supports thermal wave generation. Climatologically, thermals waves are often found in pre and postfrontal zones, and the waves are often stronger over cloud streets than over isolated cumulus.;Fig. 11.32 Three classes of buoyancy waves generated in and above the entrainment zone (EZ) by mixed layer (ML) convection. (a) Internal waves, (b) convection waves, and (c) interfacial waves.;A third type of wave is an interfacial wave formed on (or trapped within) the EZ (Fig 11.32c). These are analogous to the surface waves excited when a pebble is tossed into a pond, and do not require a mean wind or wind shear in order to form. Wavelengths of the diameterof thermals and smaller experience very strong nonlinear interaction with ML turbulence, and are quickly absorbed into the ML (Weinstock, 1987). Longer wavelengths, however, can persist and modulate the organization of convection within the ML. As a result, resonance can occur where ML convection and clouds are enhanced at the same wavelength as the waves (Clark, et al., 1986 Noilhan, et al., 1986).;There are obvious bounds on the entrainment velocity based on the observed rise of the ML top. By definition, it can never be negative. If there is entrainment happening in both directions across a stable interface, then we can use separate (positive) velocities for the entrainment in each direction. It can be zero whenever there is no turbulence. Large values on the order of We  1 ms are possible during the rapidrise phase of the late