One of the easiest ways to determine whether any measured spectrum has an inertial subrange is to plot the spectrum (S vs. l() on a loglog graph. The inertial subrange portion should appear as a straight line with a 53 slope (see Fig 9.12). The demonstration spectra plotted in Fig 8.9 all have an inertial subrange at normalized frequencies greater than 2.5, assuming that Taylors hypothesis can be used to relate;One of the easiest ways to determine whether any measured spectrum has an inertial subrange is to plot the spectrum (S vs. l() on a loglog graph. The inertial subrange portion should appear as a straight line with a 53 slope (see Fig 9.12). The demonstration spectra plotted in Fig 8.9 all have an inertial subrange at normalized frequencies greater than 2.5, assuming that Taylors hypothesis can be used to relatefrequencies to wavenumbers via f  Ml(.;convection were likely to be affected by the following variables u., we v s  z, U (or M),f, and E. Buckingham Pi analysis of the above variables gives three dimensionless;f, and E. Buckingham Pi analysis of the above variables gives three dimensionlessgroups Xl  f Su(f)  (k z d3 , f z  M, and 1t3  z  L. Fig 9.13a shows the result when these X groups are plotted (Kaimal, et ai, 1972). We see some important characteristics (1) The peak spectral intensity is reduced as the static stability is increased, because stability is opposing turbulent motions. (2) The peak is shifted to higher frequencies as stability is increased, possibly because the lower frequencies are more strongly damped by the buoyancy forces. (3) At high frequencies, the spectral intensity is no longer dependent on the static stability (at least for the weak stabilities plotted), suggesting that the smaller size eddies in the inertial subrange receive all of their energy via the cascade process from larger eddies, with no direct interaction with the mean flow or the mean stratification. (4) Finally, there is a curious occurrence of an excluded region in the spectral plot near neutral stratification (lightly shaded in the figure).