GOVERNING EQUATIONS FOR TURBULENT FLOW 81the equations become simpler  a fact that has allowed advances to be made in atmospheric dynamics that would otherwise have been more difficult or impossible. One simplification is called the shallow motion approximation (Mahrt, 1986). This approximation is valid if all of the following conditions are true 1) the vertical depth scale of density variations in the boundary layer is much shallower than the scale depth of the lower atmosphere. (This latter scale depth  p (dpldZ)1  8 km.) 2) advection and divergence of mass at a fixed point approximately balance, leaving only slow or zero variations of density with time. 3) the perturbation magnitudes of density, temperature, and pressure are much less than their respective mel111 values and A more stringent simplification, called the shallow convection approximation, requires all of the conditions above plus 4) the mean lapse rate (dTdZ) can be negative, zero, or even slightly;the equations become simpler  a fact that has allowed advances to be made in atmospheric dynamics that would otherwise have been more difficult or impossible. One simplification is called the shallow motion approximation (Mahrt, 1986). This approximation is valid if all of the following conditions are true 1) the vertical depth scale of density variations in the boundary layer is much shallower than the scale depth of the lower atmosphere. (This latter scale depth  p (dpldZ)1  8 km.) 2) advection and divergence of mass at a fixed point approximately balance, leaving only slow or zero variations of density with time. 3) the perturbation magnitudes of density, temperature, and pressure are much less than their respective mel111 values and A more stringent simplification, called the shallow convection approximation, requires all of the conditions above plus 4) the mean lapse rate (dTdZ) can be negative, zero, or even slightlypositive. For the statically stable positive case, (dTldZ)  gffl, where gffl  0.0345 KIm and 5) the magnitude of the vertical perturbation pressure gradient term must be of the same order or less than the magnitude of the buoyancy term in the equation of motion. This latter condition says that vertical motion is limited by buoyancy, which is origin of the term shallow convection. We have already employed conditions (1) and (2) to yield the incompressible form of the continuity equation. The other conditions will be applied below to yield further simplifications.;Start with the equation of state (3.2.1) and split the variables into mean and turbulent;Start with the equation of state (3.2.1) and split the variables into mean and turbulentparts ppp, TvTv  Tv, P  P  p.Theresultcanberearrangedtobe