Problem. Find a similarity relationship for the buoyancy flux, w 9 v  as a functionof height in the convective mixed layer.;Solution. First (step 1), guess the relevant variables. Based on the problem;Solution. First (step 1), guess the relevant variables. Based on the problemstatement, we already know that two of the variables of interest are w 9 and z. The v;statement, we already know that two of the variables of interest are w 9 and z. The vdepth of the mixed layer, z,, and the strength of the heat flux near the sur.ace, w9  , v s might also influence the flux within the interior of the mixed layer. Thus, we will use four variables for this analysis. Step (2), group these four variables into dimensionless groups. By inspection, we;depth of the mixed layer, z,, and the strength of the heat flux near the sur.ace, w9  , v s might also influence the flux within the interior of the mixed layer. Thus, we will use four variables for this analysis. Step (2), group these four variables into dimensionless groups. By inspection, wecan easily produce two dimensionless groups (zlZ and w9   w 9  . We have thus v v s reduced our degrees of freedom from four to two. In performing our experiment for step (3), dimensional analysis tens us that we need;can easily produce two dimensionless groups (zlZ and w9   w 9  . We have thus v v s reduced our degrees of freedom from four to two. In performing our experiment for step (3), dimensional analysis tens us that we neednot measure all combinations of z, Zj , w 9 v  , and w 9 v  .. Instead, we need only;not measure all combinations of z, Zj , w 9 v  , and w 9 v  .. Instead, we need onlymeasure various combinations of the two groups zlzj and w9 v  w9 vs This;measure various combinations of the two groups zlzj and w9 v  w9 vs Thisgreatly simplifies the design and conduct of our experiment. Suppose the heat flux data from Fig 3.7 (reproduced as Fig 9.1a) represents the results of our experiment. The curves in this data set exhibit a common shape there is a nearlylinear decrease of heat flux from the surface value to a small negative value near the top of the mixed layer. Above that, the flux reduces toward zero. As we shan soon learn in Chapter 11, the average depth of the mixed layer is frequently taken as the height where the heat flux is most negative. When each of the data curves is replotted in terms of the two dimensionless groups, as shown in Fig 9.1b, we happily find that an of the data is closely clustered around a single curve. For step (4), an obvious choice of curve is a straight line between the surface and the top of the mixed layer. By definition we want the intercept of this line to equal 1, and by inspection it looks like the slope is roughly 1.2. This results in;greatly simplifies the design and conduct of our experiment. Suppose the heat flux data from Fig 3.7 (reproduced as Fig 9.1a) represents the results of our experiment. The curves in this data set exhibit a common shape there is a nearlylinear decrease of heat flux from the surface value to a small negative value near the top of the mixed layer. Above that, the flux reduces toward zero. As we shan soon learn in Chapter 11, the average depth of the mixed layer is frequently taken as the height where the heat flux is most negative. When each of the data curves is replotted in terms of the two dimensionless groups, as shown in Fig 9.1b, we happily find that an of the data is closely clustered around a single curve. For step (4), an obvious choice of curve is a straight line between the surface and the top of the mixed layer. By definition we want the intercept of this line to equal 1, and by inspection it looks like the slope is roughly 1.2. This results inw9  v;w 9  v   I which is also plotted in Fig 9.1 b. As an independent test, the buoyancy flux data from Figs 3.1 b, 3.2b, and 3.3b confirm the validity of our curve.