Fig. 3.2 (a) Kinematic heat flux (wO) and moisture flux (Wop) at various heights measured by aircraft during flight 3, May 28, of the 1983 Boundary Layer Experiment (BLX83) in Oklahoma, where Pv is the water vapor density (g wate, mI)  (b) Same data as (a), but normalized with respect to the top of the mixed layer (ZI)....!!l9 with respect to surface values of the fluxes. The buoyancy flux ( wO) is also plotted.;Each data point in Figs 3.1a to 3.3a represent a flight leg average flux. In general, we see that the heat flux decreases with height, starting at a large positive value near the surface, and becoming negative near the top of the mixed layer. The positive heat flux near the surface is associated with solar heating of the earths surface, which transfers its heat to the atmosphere. The negative heat flux near the ML top is associated with the entrainment of warmer FA air down into the ML (warm air mixed down causes a negative heat flux). This slope of the heat flux profile causes the temperature to become warmer with time (see eq 3.5.3f). There is much more scatter in the moisture flux values in these figures. In general, they are positive near the surface, implying evaporation of moisture from the ground into the air. The values just below the top of the ML are also positive, which in this case is related to dry air being entrained down into the ML (note that moist air moving up and dry air moving down both yield a positive moisture flux  see section 2.7). Thus, the moisturizing from the surface and drying from aloft nearly counteract each other in the cases studied, as indicated by the nearly vertical profile of w q with height (i.e., zero slope implies zero humidity increase, according to eq 3.5.3e). Notice that on Flight 3, the moisture flux increases slightly with height, implying a net drying of the ML. One problem with these figures is that sufficient time elapses between the low altitude flights and the high altitude flights that nonstationarity of the ML comes into play. In particular, the diurnal cycle causes changes in solar heating with time. Also, the top of the