I) Make fast response measurements of velocity to get a time series. 2) Calculate the FFf of the time series, from which spectral densities, S, can be found. 3) Plot the spectra on a loglog graph. 4) Identify the inertial subrange that ponion of the spectrum that exhibits a 53 slope. 5) Fit a straight line with 53 slope to this portion of the graph. 6) Pick any point on this line, and record the S and 1C values of that point;7) Solve for e using e  0.49 S3f2.,2f2 .;The prime reason for using this method is that it is the only way to find dissipation without using structure functions. A disadvantage is that typical atmospheric spectra has considerable variability, even in the inenial subrange. This variability translates into error bars on the estimate of e.;10.7.6 Structure Function Method  for dissipation rate;Using (8.3.ld), we can easily solve for dissipation rate e  0.35 (Cv2)32. An advantage is that measurements can be made at points in the atmosphere distant from the sensor, but the corresponding disadvantage is that the remote sensors necessary to do this are somewhat expensive. Similar methods can be used to estimate .;10.7.7 Residual Method  for estimating terms that are difficult to measure;Some of the higher moments and pressure terms are difficult to measure directly. However, if a conservation or budget equation contains these terms and if all the other terms in the equation can be measured by other techniques, then the unknown terms can be found by making the equation balance. The advantage is that there may be no known alternative for measuring some of these terms. The disadvantage is that all of the errors from the known terms accumulate and are added into the estimate of the unknown term. Most studies that have used this method make an appropriate disclaimer that the residual values include errors as well as the term of interest.;Suppose, for example, that we wish to calculate the term w p . After searchingthrough our catalog of budget equations, we find the TKE equation (5.lb). Using eddy correlation methods for terms IV and spectral methods for term VIT, we can solve for;through our catalog of budget equations, we find the TKE equation (5.lb). Using eddy correlation methods for terms IV and spectral methods for term VIT, we can solve forwp as a residual (Wyngaard and Cote, 1971).;In another example, GalChen and Kropfli (1984) have used Doppler radar data to estimate pressure perturbation and buoyancy flux. This is a good trick, because the Doppler radar measures only velocities. Their approach was to use a number of budget equations together to eliminate most of the terms that could not be measured by their one