If Y. wL. and wa, are specified as boundary conditions. then the above four;If Y. wL. and wa, are specified as boundary conditions. then the above fourequations contain five unknowns Zi.9. wazjIlEZ9. and we. To close this set of equations. we must make a closure assumption or parameterization for one of the unknowns. As will be described in Section 11.4. some investigators make assumptions;equations contain five unknowns Zi.9. wazjIlEZ9. and we. To close this set of equations. we must make a closure assumption or parameterization for one of the unknowns. As will be described in Section 11.4. some investigators make assumptionsfor we. while others make them for w 0 zj Recall that this approach can be categorized as halforder closure. because the shape of the mean profiles are fixed in advance. and only one integrated value for each variable is forecast in the ML. The slab ML model has been used in oceanography and meteorology for a long time (Ball. 1960 Kraus and Tumer. 1967 Lilly. 1968 Kraus. 1972 Stull. 1973 Betts. 1973 Tennekes. 1973). and continues to be a popular approach. Kraus and Leslie (1982), for example. have used coupled ocean and atmospheric slab mixed layers to study airmass modification and stratus formation. Brutsaert (1987) studied ML drying associated with entrainment of dry air.;HigherOrder Local Closure. Higherorder local closure models (oneandahalf through third order) have been very successful. Advantages of these higherorder models include being able to forecast TKE. variances. and fluxes (if using the second and higher order models). Examples and figures of ML forecasts made with these models have already been shown in Chapter 6.;Top down  bottom up (TDBU) Diffusion. As discussed earlier, Ktheory (firstorder local closure) often has difficulties in the mixed layer. Specifically, infinite values of the eddy diffusivity are required to maintain fluxes in the absence of mean gradients. and negative diffusivities are needed for countergradient fluxes. One attempt to circumvent this dilemma while continuing to use firstorder local closure is to study the mixing upward from the ground separately from the mixing downward from the top of the ML (Wyngaard and Brost. 1984 Moeng and Wyngaard, 1984 Wyngaard. 1987 Fairall. 1987 Young. 1988). For example. if one injects a red tracer into the bottom of the ML and a green tracer into the top, we would expect the red to disperse upward (down the red gradient) independent of the green concentration, and the green to disperse downward (down the green gradient) independent of the red concentration. The superposition of the red and green should not affect the the dispersion of either one. If we instead inject a red tracer at both the top and bottom of the ML. the dispersion should be the same as the previous case. Thus, some of the red dispersing upward will do so counter to the gradient of red diffusing down. and vise versa. The strict formulation of the TDBU model requires the use of artificial gradient functions to allow separate downgradient diffusion from both the top and bottom of the ML. As Young (1988) points out, however. there are still problems because the gradient functions cross zero and become negative, implying countergradient diffusion.