510 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYturbulence. we find that tR is on the order of 7 to 30 h. Thus. changes in surface forcings might not be felt near the top of the SBL until many hours later if the turbulence is weak. Compared with the 10 to 15 min time scales for convective ML turbulence. we see that the weakly turbulent SBL is essentially not in equilibrium with its surface forcings (Le . with surface heat flux or roughness). The SBL is trying to react to surface changes. but is always lagging behind by several hours. Therefore. we can not expect similarity theory to work if our key variables are the surface forcing variables. and we anticipate that statistically robust fluxes and variances might be difficult to measure. Another way to look at it is that since typical midlatitude nights last about 12 h. the weakly turbulent NBL cannot approach equilibrium before the night ends and the NBL disappears. Another time scale for motions in the SBL is the inverse of the BruntVliislilli frequency. INBV This is related to the period of oscillation of a parcel in a statically stable environment. and is discussed in the section on buoyancy waves.;(12.2.3b)which indicates the degree of suppression of vertical motions by the static stability. This scale is called the buoyancy length scale. and it can range from a couple hundred meters for weak stratification. to less than a meter for weak turbulence in strong stratification. Mahrt and Gamage (1987) defmed a length scale based on the structure functions for vertical velocity Dww(r) and potential temperature Doo(r). for separation distance r o (r) ISB(r)  ww (glav )  0 ae(r)  1(2 (12.2.3c);For SBLs with strong stability and weak turbulence. this structure buoyancy length scale is on the order of a meter, while for weak stability and strong turbulence, the scale can be 50 to 100 m. Mahrt and Gamage also used structure functions to study the anisotropy of turbulence, and found that the ratio of vertical to horizontal scales of large turbulent eddies ranged from 0.1 for strong stratification to about 0.5 for weaker stratification. A dissipation length scale (Hunt. et al . 1985) can be defined by