W is on the order of mms or cms. The resulting tenns I through IV in the above equation are thus nearly equal in magnitude for many cases. The bottom line is that we usually can not neglect horizontal advection (terms n  111). and we can not neglect subsidence (term IV) as it affects the movement of conserved variables. Sometimes micrometeorologists wish to focus their attention on turbulence effects at the expense of neglecting mean advection. By assuming horizontal homogeneity.  we can set ollox  0 and olf)y  O. and neglecting subsidence gives W  O. Although these assumptions are frequently made by theorists to simplify their derivations. they are rarely valid in the real atmosphere. When they are made. they cause;W is on the order of mms or cms. The resulting tenns I through IV in the above equation are thus nearly equal in magnitude for many cases. The bottom line is that we usually can not neglect horizontal advection (terms n  111). and we can not neglect subsidence (term IV) as it affects the movement of conserved variables. Sometimes micrometeorologists wish to focus their attention on turbulence effects at the expense of neglecting mean advection. By assuming horizontal homogeneity.  we can set ollox  0 and olf)y  O. and neglecting subsidence gives W  O. Although these assumptions are frequently made by theorists to simplify their derivations. they are rarely valid in the real atmosphere. When they are made. they causethe advection terms of only mean variables (like  ) to disappear the turbulent flux terms do not disappear. and in fact are very important.;3.3.5 Reorientating and Rotating the Coordinate System;Although we usually use a Cartesian coordinate system aligned such that the (x. y. z) axes point (east. north. up). sometimes it is convenient to rotate the Cartesian coordinate system about the vertical (z) axes to cause x and y to point in other directions. Some examples include aligning the xaxis with the mean wind direction. the geostrophic wind direction the direction of surface stress. or perpendicular to shorelines or mountains. The only reason for doing this is to simplify some of the tenns in the governing equations. For example. by choosing the xaxis aligned with the mean wind. we find UM and VO. In such a system. the xaxis is called the alongwind direction and the ydirection is called the crosswind direction.;As was already stated in section 3.3.1. the equation of state is assumed to hold in the mean. and is rewritten here for the sake of organization;Stan with the continuity equation (3.2.2c) and expand the velocities into mean and turbulent parts to give