(a) Variation of vertical velocity variance, w with height, z during daytime. Height is normalized with respect to the average mixed layer depth, Zio while variance is normalized by the convective velocity scale, w.. Range of measured and modeled values are shaded, with a simple empirical approximation given by the solid line. (b) Range of the ratio of the vertical velocity variance to the eddy kinetic energy, e. Based on data from Deardorff (1974), Lenschow, et al. (1980), Andr6 et al. (1978), Therry and Lacarrere (1983), and Smedman and HOgstrOm (1983).;(a) Variation of vertical velocity variance, w with height, z during daytime. Height is normalized with respect to the average mixed layer depth, Zio while variance is normalized by the convective velocity scale, w.. Range of measured and modeled values are shaded, with a simple empirical approximation given by the solid line. (b) Range of the ratio of the vertical velocity variance to the eddy kinetic energy, e. Based on data from Deardorff (1974), Lenschow, et al. (1980), Andr6 et al. (1978), Therry and Lacarrere (1983), and Smedman and HOgstrOm (1983).is a turbulent transport term. It describes how variance ? is moved 1 around by the turbulent eddies uj. describes how variance is redistributed by pressure perturbations. It is often associated with oscillations in the air (Le., buoyancy or gravity waves). represents the viscous dissipation of velocity variance.;We can also examine the prognostic equations for each individual component of velocity variance if we relax slightly the summation requirement associated with repeated indices. For example, in the above equation, we could let i2 to write the forecastequation for v,2. Any other repeated indices, such as j, continue to imply a sum. When;equation for v,2. Any other repeated indices, such as j, continue to imply a sum. Whenwe perform such a split, remembering to reinsert the retumtoisotropy terms (because for anyone component, it is nonzero), we find;2 2 aU  aU U. at J ax. J; au a (u.,u,2) 2 a(up) 2pdu 2uu.  J    