Sometimes this rate is given by limitations of the data logger or computer digitizer. If this is the case, then the raw electronic analog signal from the sensor (thermistor, thermocouple, gust probe accelerometer, etc) should be filtered by an l!!lll!Qg, electronic filter prior to the digitizing or sampling to remove frequencies higher than the Nyquist frequency. Sometimes the sensor itself has such a slow response that it performs the analog filtering automatically. If the analog filtering is not performed, then there is no way to remove the erroneous aliased component from the resulting time series. Postprocessing of the discrete time;Sometimes this rate is given by limitations of the data logger or computer digitizer. If this is the case, then the raw electronic analog signal from the sensor (thermistor, thermocouple, gust probe accelerometer, etc) should be filtered by an l!!lll!Qg, electronic filter prior to the digitizing or sampling to remove frequencies higher than the Nyquist frequency. Sometimes the sensor itself has such a slow response that it performs the analog filtering automatically. If the analog filtering is not performed, then there is no way to remove the erroneous aliased component from the resulting time series. Postprocessing of the discrete timesries with digital filters will NOT work, because it is impossible to know what portion of the wave amplitude at the resolvable frequencies is real, and what is folded into it. Digital averaging is sometimes successfully used for other reasons, however. Suppose that a sensor is designed with appropriate analog filters to yield unaliased data when sampled at a very high frequency. Next, suppose that the amount of this unbiased discr!te data is too large to record in a convenient manner, or is coming in too fast to be processed. The stream of incoming discrete data values can be block averaged (e.g., average every 10 data points), or filtered with a variety of filters (e.g., Butterworth fillers) before being recorded or processed further. This yields a lowerfrequency sample without aliasing errors. If, however, one records only every fifth or tenth (or any interval) value from .he sampled stream, then aliasing is again a problem.;Fourier analysis. Now that we are convinced that we cant resolve frequencies greater than the Nyquist frequency, why does the Fourier transform operation given by 8.4.1b) give amplitudes FA(n) up to the frequency n  N  I? The answer is that it doesnt really. Looking at example 8.4.2 again, we again note that Fq(n) for n  nf is just the complex conjugate of the Fq(n) values for n  nf. This is always the case and can be proved mathematically, assuming that the initial time series consists of only real numbers. Hence, the half of the Fq(n) values for which n  nr give no new information.