An outline is given here for the derivation of (6.8.4a). First, start with a simple;An outline is given here for the derivation of (6.8.4a). First, start with a simpleconservation equation where the only forcing is vertical flux divergence aot  ;61   ow oz   (t)  (t6t) 6t. Next, integrate this from the surface (zO) to the height of interest where the flux is desired (zZ). where Z  k 6z. By splitting the integral of the right side of the equation into the sum of smaller integrals, where each small integral is over one grid box of depth 6z. our equation now becomes  61  61 k  ;61   ow oz   (t)  (t6t) 6t. Next, integrate this from the surface (zO) to the height of interest where the flux is desired (zZ). where Z  k 6z. By splitting the integral of the right side of the equation into the sum of smaller integrals, where each small integral is over one grid box of depth 6z. our equation now becomes  61  61 k  w (Z)  w (0)  (!J.z6t) l i(t)  i(t6t). But the turbulent flux across a;w (Z)  w (0)  (!J.z6t) l i(t)  i(t6t). But the turbulent flux across asolid boundary, or into any nonturbulent part of the atmosphere. is zero by definition. making the second term on the left become zero. Also, the term in square brackets can be;solid boundary, or into any nonturbulent part of the atmosphere. is zero by definition. making the second term on the left become zero. Also, the term in square brackets can bewritten using (6.8.1) and (6.8.2a) as  jl cij i  jl cij j. A bit of algebraic;written using (6.8.1) and (6.8.2a) as  jl cij i  jl cij j. A bit of algebraicmanipulation puts the final result into the form of (6.8.4a).;As just stated. the turbulent flux across a solid boundary is zero by definition. even though the nonturbulent fluxes might not be zero (see Section 7.1 for a discussion of;As just stated. the turbulent flux across a solid boundary is zero by definition. even though the nonturbulent fluxes might not be zero (see Section 7.1 for a discussion ofeffective fluxes). Thus. w (kO)  O. With this boundary condition, (6.8.4a) can be rewritten as a recursion relationship;(6Z)  w (k)  w (k  1)   .J Ckj( k  j) 6t j  1 (6.8.4c);Problem Suppose that we start with a shallow mixed layer of depth 300 m within a 500 m column of air, with initial profiles of potential temperatures and winds as indicated below. Assume the column is divided into five equalthickness (100 m) grid boxes.