Fig 12.3 shows an idealization of vertical profiles of some turbulent quantities for the weakly turbulent case, based on the previous data from Chapters 3 to 5. Turbulence,when averaged over long times, decreases smoothly with height. At the top of the SBL, the turbulence blends into the residual layer turbulence, or can become nonturbulent. Vertical turbulent motions are suppressed by stability, but buoyant oscillations can occur as gravity waves. An instantaneous snapshot of turbulence gives a far different picture. Patchy turbulence can occur in thin layers, and turbulent bursting can cause sporadic vertical mixing. Turbulence at height z is governed by local shears and stability at that height rather than by forcings at the surface. For some cases, this results in local zless scaling of turbulence, and decoupling of the flow state from the ground state. Turbulence can be suppressed or enhanced by the passage of gravity waves, can ride up and down hundreds of meters on these waves, and can nonlinearly interact with them.;12.1.2 Bulk Measures of SBL Depth and Strength;Even if turbulence in the SBL is weak, patchy and sporadic, cases can occur where flowstate information is eventually transferred throughout the SBL depth, given a sufficient time interval. Over a long averaging time, these SBLs can act like a single entity, rather than like a group of completely decoupled layers. For the subset of SBL cases ranging from this weaklycoupled one through the stronglymixed SBL. we can treat the SBL as a single entity with a characteristic bulk strength. depth. and turbulence intensity. SBL strength is defined by the nearsurface potentialtemperature difference;Z (a) Definitions of SBL strength. es , and depth, h. The integral layer depth scale, H69 , is ;Z (a) Definitions of SBL strength. es , and depth, h. The integral layer depth scale, H69 , is defined such that the shaded area within the h rectangle H 69  es Turbulent  equals the area under windy the potential temperature sounding. SBl (large B)