Since turbulence is much more effective than viscosity at causing mixing, one would expect K..n  v. Values of K..n reported in the literature vary from 0.1 m2s1 to 2000 m2s1 , with typical values on the order of 1 to 10 m2s1 Values of v are much smaller, on the order of 1.5x10s m2s1  Magnitude is not the only difference between the molecular and eddy viscosities. A significant difference is that v is a function of the fluid, while K..n is a function of the flow. Thus, while v is uniquely determined by the chemical composition of the fluid and its state (temperature and pressure, etc.), K..n varies as the turbulence varies. Thus, one must parameterize K, as a function of other variables such as zIL, Richardson number or;Since turbulence is much more effective than viscosity at causing mixing, one would expect K..n  v. Values of K..n reported in the literature vary from 0.1 m2s1 to 2000 m2s1 , with typical values on the order of 1 to 10 m2s1 Values of v are much smaller, on the order of 1.5x10s m2s1  Magnitude is not the only difference between the molecular and eddy viscosities. A significant difference is that v is a function of the fluid, while K..n is a function of the flow. Thus, while v is uniquely determined by the chemical composition of the fluid and its state (temperature and pressure, etc.), K..n varies as the turbulence varies. Thus, one must parameterize K, as a function of other variables such as zIL, Richardson number orthe stability iJe iJz, as outlined in Section 6.3.2.4.;The following development is patterned after the mixinglength arguments proposed by Prandti in 1925. Assume that there is turbulence in a statically neutral environment, with a linear mean humidity gradient in the vertical as sketched in Fig 6.1 a. If a turbulent eddy moves a parcel of air upward by amount z towards some reference level Z during which there is no mixing nor other changes in the value of q within the parcel, then the humidity of that parcel will differ from the surrounding environment by amount q, where;The following development is patterned after the mixinglength arguments proposed by Prandti in 1925. Assume that there is turbulence in a statically neutral environment, with a linear mean humidity gradient in the vertical as sketched in Fig 6.1 a. If a turbulent eddy moves a parcel of air upward by amount z towards some reference level Z during which there is no mixing nor other changes in the value of q within the parcel, then the humidity of that parcel will differ from the surrounding environment by amount q, whereq  ()Z (6.4.4a);If the background mean wind profile is also linear, then a similar expression can be written for uu  . () Z (6.4.4b);In order for the parcel to move upward a distance z, it must have had some vertical velocity w. If the nature of turbulence is such that w is proportional to u, then wemight expect that w   c u for the the wind shear sketched in Fig 6.1 b (i.e., for iJUiJz ;0), and w  c u for iJuaz  0, where c is a constant of proportionality. Substituting (6.4.4b) for u in the above expression for w yields;0), and w  c u for iJuaz  0, where c is a constant of proportionality. Substituting (6.4.4b) for u in the above expression for w yieldsw  c I  I z (6.4.4c);w  c I  I z (6.4.4c)where we find that the magnitude of the shear is important.