TURBULENCE KINETIC ENERGY 177below RT before KH waves can fonn. Laboratory and theoretical work have shown that the criterion for KH wave fonnation is Ri  Re This leads to the apparent hysteresis, because the Richardson number of nonturbulent flow must be lowered to Rc before turbulence will start, but once turbulent, the turbulence can continue until the Richardson number is raised above RT.;The theoretical work yielding Re  0.25 is based on local measurements of the wind shear and temperature gradient. Meteorologists rarely know the actual local gradients, but can approximate the gradients using observations made at a series of discrete height;The theoretical work yielding Re  0.25 is based on local measurements of the wind shear and temperature gradient. Meteorologists rarely know the actual local gradients, but can approximate the gradients using observations made at a series of discrete heightintervals. If we approximate CJSiJz by t.St.z, and approximate CJUCJz and CJVCJz by;intervals. If we approximate CJSiJz by t.St.z, and approximate CJUCJz and CJVCJz byt.Ut.z and t.Vt.z respectively, then we can define a new ratio known as the bulk Richardson number, RB ;It is this fonn of the Richardson number that is used most frequently in meteorology, because rawinsonde data and numerical weather forecasts supply wind and temperature measurements at discrete points in space. The sign of the finite differences are defined,for example, by t.U  U(zOp)  U(Zboltom) Unfonunately, the critical value of 0.25 applies only for local gradients, not for finite differences across thick layers. In fact, the thicker the layer is, the more likely we are to average out large gradients that occur within small subregions of the layer of interest. The net result is (1) we introduce uncertainty into our prediction of the occurrence of turbulence, and (2) we must use an artificially large (theoretically unjustified) value of the critical Richardson number that gives reasonable results using our smoothed gradients. The thinner the layer, the closer the critical Richardson number will likely be to 0.2 . Since data points in soundings are sometimes spaced far apart in the vertical, approximations such as shown in the graph and table in Fig 5.19 can be used to estimate the probabili.y and intensity of turbulence (Lee, et aI., 1979). Table 51 shows a ponion of a rawinsonde sounding, together with the corresponding values of bulk Richardson number. The resulting turbulence diagnosis is given in the rightmost column of Table 5l. Note that the Richardson number itself says nothing about the intensity of turbulence, only about the yesno presence of turbulence.