In situations where wind shear generates turbulence, the previous method fails. Quite a few alternative parameterizations have been proposed in the literature that include mechanical as well as thermal generation of turbulence. One class of entrainment closure, described here, uses the TKE equation. In order for warm air to be entrained into the cooler ML, it must be forced down against the restoring force of gravity. In the process of lowering the buoyant entrained air, the potential energy of the MUF A system is increased. The rate of change of potential energy with time equals the integral over height of the negative portions of buoyancy flux. Some of the TKE of the ML is expended to do the work necessary to bring the entrained air down. The net result is that some TKE has been converted to potential energy. To get an entrainment velocity from this approach, start by integrating the TKE equation (5.1) over the total depth of the boundary layer (Stull,1976a);In situations where wind shear generates turbulence, the previous method fails. Quite a few alternative parameterizations have been proposed in the literature that include mechanical as well as thermal generation of turbulence. One class of entrainment closure, described here, uses the TKE equation. In order for warm air to be entrained into the cooler ML, it must be forced down against the restoring force of gravity. In the process of lowering the buoyant entrained air, the potential energy of the MUF A system is increased. The rate of change of potential energy with time equals the integral over height of the negative portions of buoyancy flux. Some of the TKE of the ML is expended to do the work necessary to bring the entrained air down. The net result is that some TKE has been converted to potential energy. To get an entrainment velocity from this approach, start by integrating the TKE equation (5.1) over the total depth of the boundary layer (Stull,1976a)d f d g fe d f au d 1 ,, fe dz  e z   w z  u w  z  wp  dt e v az p z v (11.4.3a);St MP ow Diswhere St is the integrated storage term, BpN is buoyancy, MP is the mechanical production, OW is a pressurevelocity correlation related to gravity waves draining energy from the top of the ML, and Dis is viscous dissipation. Note that the turbulent transport term (Term V in equation 5.1b) integrates to zero and does not appear above because there is no turbulent transport into the nonturbulent FA or into the ground. As mentioned before, the OW term is relatively small, and can usually be neglected. Suppose that the buoyancy flux at any height can be split into positive and negative contributions, identified as production and consumption respectively (Stage and Businger, 1981);where St is the integrated storage term, BpN is buoyancy, MP is the mechanical production, OW is a pressurevelocity correlation related to gravity waves draining energy from the top of the ML, and Dis is viscous dissipation. Note that the turbulent transport term (Term V in equation 5.1b) integrates to zero and does not appear above because there is no turbulent transport into the nonturbulent FA or into the ground. As mentioned before, the OW term is relatively small, and can usually be neglected. Suppose that the buoyancy flux at any height can be split into positive and negative contributions, identified as production and consumption respectively (Stage and Businger, 1981)we   w e  w e   I I v v production v consumption;Bp  fe1 dz e v production v and BN g f wevl dz . (l1.4.3b) e v consumpllon;Bp  fe1 dz e v production v and BN g f wevl dz . (l1.4.3b) e v consumpllonwhere Bp represents the production of TKE via buoyancy, and BN represents the consumption of TKE as it is converted into potential energy. Although Bp and BN