Magnitudes of the shear production term in the surface layer are obviously greatest on a windy day, and are small on a calm day. In synopticscale cyclones the strong winds and overcast skies suggest that forced convection is applicable. On many days, turbulence is neither in a state of free nor forced convection because both the shear and buoyancy terms are contributing to the production of turbulence. At night over land, or anytime the ground is colder than the air, the shear term is often the only term that generates turbulence. We have seen from Fig 5.4 that the shear term is active over just a relatively small depth of air, so it is not surprising that, over land, the NBL is usually thinner than the ML. The greatest shears are associated with the change of V and V components of mean wind with height. Except in thunderstorms, shear of W is negligible in the BL. Looking back on (4.3.1hj), the shear production is greatest into the x and y components of TKE. Hence, shear production is also an anisotropic forcing  strongest in the horizontal. Both the buoyant and shear production terms can generate anisotropic turbulence. The difference is that shear generation produces turbulence primarily in the horizontal directions, while buoyant generation produces it primarily in the vertical. These differences are evident in Fig. 5.8, where a high powered vertically pointing continuous wave radar was used to observed the time evolution of eddy structure within the BL. This instrument senses moisture contrasts between dry and moist air. The boundary between regions of different moisture appear white in the photographs, while regions of more uniform high or low humidity appear black. Taylors hypothesis has been used to convert from timeheight graphs to vertical cross sections. In Fig 5.8b for free convection, the inverted Vshaped tops of thermals shows up as white because they separate the dry FA air from the moister ML air. These structures are predominantly vertical. In Fig 5.8a for forced convection, the eddies are sheared into a much more horizontal or slanting orientation, with a much more chaotic appearance. Similar structures are apparent in the lidargenerated images shown in the frontispiece figure on page xiii, for (a) free and (b) forced convection.;The quantity we represents the vertical turbulent flux of TKE. As for other vertical fluxes, the change in flux with height is more important than the magnitude of flux. Term V is a flux divergence term if there is more flux into a layer than leaves, then the magnitude of TKE increases. On a local scale (i.e., at anyone height within the ML), Term V acts as either production or loss, depending on whether there is a flux convergence or divergence. When integrated over the depth of the ML, however, Term V becomes identically zero, assuming as bottom and top boundary conditions that the earth is not turbulent, and that there is negligible turbulence above the top of the ML. Overall, Term V neither creates nor destroys TKE, it just moves or redistributes TKE from one location in the BL to another. Fig 5.9 shows vertical profiles of w e for daytime, convective cases. Most of these