Z, 6v and We as a function of time for a 3 h period.c) If the entrainmentzone thickness, h equals 0.3 Zj , and the lifting condensation level (LCL) is at a constant height of 1500 m, then when will the first convective clouds form? Use the results from part (b). 4) Given the steadystate advection of cold air from land over warmer water, write the equation set necessary to find the change in height of the internal boundary layer (Le., the new ML fonning over the warmer water) as a function of distance downwind from the shore. Do NOT solve these equations, just write the equations without solution, but simplified as much as possible. Assume The initial cold air from the land has a uniform lapse rate, y. You can use the flux ratio approach to determine the new ML depth over water. Align the coordinate system with the mean wind. Assume lateral homogeneity (Le., no;c) If the entrainmentzone thickness, h equals 0.3 Zj , and the lifting condensation level (LCL) is at a constant height of 1500 m, then when will the first convective clouds form? Use the results from part (b). 4) Given the steadystate advection of cold air from land over warmer water, write the equation set necessary to find the change in height of the internal boundary layer (Le., the new ML fonning over the warmer water) as a function of distance downwind from the shore. Do NOT solve these equations, just write the equations without solution, but simplified as much as possible. Assume The initial cold air from the land has a uniform lapse rate, y. You can use the flux ratio approach to determine the new ML depth over water. Align the coordinate system with the mean wind. Assume lateral homogeneity (Le., nocrosswind), neglect subsidence, and neglect u 6 . Assume the water surface;crosswind), neglect subsidence, and neglect u 6 . Assume the water surfacetemperature, 60 , is constant in time and space. Assume the mean wind speed and direction are constant with height. Neglect radiation and latent heating.;5) If the moisture flux at Zj is pw q  0.10 gwater m2sJ, and q   5 gwatekg.ir and;5) If the moisture flux at Zj is pw q  0.10 gwater m2sJ, and q   5 gwatekg.ir ande  3 K, then a) Find the value of entrainment velocity (wJ. b) Find the value of heat flux (in kinematic units) at z.;6) Given a dry convective mixed layer with initial conditions Zj  500 m, and e  5 K,as sketched below. Assume the surface heat flux is w 6 s 0.2 K mls and is constant;as sketched below. Assume the surface heat flux is w 6 s 0.2 K mls and is constantwith time. Use the flux ratio approach. Remember that a(e)at  y we  aeat ,;with time. Use the flux ratio approach. Remember that a(e)at  y we  aeat ,where y is the lapse rate in the free atmosphere. a) What must the subsidence be initially to prevent the mixed layer from rising (Le.,