This can be interpreted as the ratio of measured horizontal distance to the theoretical distance traveled during one convective circulation (updraft and downdraft). For large XML (1) turbulent mixing dominates over the mean wind, while for small XML 1) the turbulent mixing is less important. In addition to horizontal advection of momentum, moisture, heat, and pollutants, we must be concerned about advection of zi In essence, the latter is a measure of the advection of volume within the ML. For example, a slowly rising, shallow ML over a moist irrigated region can grow rapidly if a deeper ML advects into the area. The local change of z is described by;This can be interpreted as the ratio of measured horizontal distance to the theoretical distance traveled during one convective circulation (updraft and downdraft). For large XML (1) turbulent mixing dominates over the mean wind, while for small XML 1) the turbulent mixing is less important. In addition to horizontal advection of momentum, moisture, heat, and pollutants, we must be concerned about advection of zi In essence, the latter is a measure of the advection of volume within the ML. For example, a slowly rising, shallow ML over a moist irrigated region can grow rapidly if a deeper ML advects into the area. The local change of z is described byaz. az. 1 at  U 1  w j dx. e (11.5.1 b);The slope of zi can be significant, and its neglect can cause forecast errors in ML depth tendency as great the magnitude of the entrainment velocity (Lenschow, 1973). For strong winds and abrupt changes in surface conditions, advection can dominate to prevent growth of the local ML with time. The resulting thermal internal boundary layer, which is a function of downwind distance x, is discussed in Chapter 14.;Mean vertical velocities ranging from 0.22 mls (subsidence) to 0.27 mls (upward motion) have been observed in a limited case study based on BLX83 field experiment data (Vachalek, et al., 1988). These magnitudes are very large compared to the entrainment velocity, and can not be neglected. Unfortunately, subsidence at the top of the ML is very difficult to measure. Vertical velocity measurements from aircraft often have a mean bias that is greater than the true subsidence, and therefore cannot be used. The mean vertical velocity magnitudes are also below the noise level of most Doppler remote sensors. The downward movement of elevated smoke, moisture, or stable layers can be tracked, but usually horizontal advection affects this movement and is frequently not known. Also, the tracking of elevated layers can be applied only if the layers are in the FA above the mixed layer, so as not to be influenced by ML growth. Alternately, mean vertical motion at Zi can be estimated if divergence is known as a function of height within the ML, using