Radars (radio detection and ranging) transmit microwaves, sodars sound, and lidars light. Some use pulsed transmissions, while some are continuous. By measuring the time from when a pulse was transmitted until a signal is returned, the distance to the feature that returned the signal can be calculated. If pulses or shots are aimed in different directions, then the resulting signals can be constructed into scans. By measuring the frequency (Doppler) shift in the signal, radial velocities can be found. Active remote sensors can scan planes or volumes in the atmosphere, allowing us to compose snapshot like pictures of the boundary layer. With this capability we can examine the shape and form of turbulent eddies and convective elements (Le., the morphology of turbulence structures). By looping through a series of successive snapshots in the cinematographic sense, we can watch the evolution of these elements. Noonkester (1979) has suggested a way for cataloging the different types of structures visible using remote sensors. For stationary sensors on the ground, vertical scans at a fIXed azimuth angle give what is called an RHI (rangeheight indicator) display. This is essentially a vertical cross section of the boundary layer. Scans through a range of azimuth angles, but with the elevation angle fixed, gives the PPI (planposition indicator) display. For very low elevation angles, the PPI display is almost the same as a horizontal cross section. Modern data analysis algorithms allow volume scans to be remapped into horizontal or vertical cross sections. PseudoRill scans are made by fixed sensors looking only vertically. As the wind blows boundary layer structures over the sensor, the resulting sequence of shots with time can be interpreted as a vertical cross section by employing Taylors hypothesis. True vertical cross sections are obtained from downward or upwardlooking sensors mounted on aircraft. In the absence of precipitation or chaff particles, radar and sodar detect variations in the refractive index of the air that are on the same order as the wavelength of the sensor. For radar, these fluctuations are most strongly related to moisture fluctuations of centimeter scales, while for sodar they are related to temperature fluctuations of meter scales. If there are regions in the boundary layer where such moisture or temperature variations exist, whether as active turbulence or as footprints of former turbulence, then some of the wave energy transmitted from the remote sensor will be scattered off of this region back to the sensor. So little energy is scattered back to the detector that very powerful pulses of energy must be transmitted, and very sensitive receivers must be designed to measure the returns. In the simplest displays, the regions of higherintensity returned signals are plotted as a bright spots, relative to the dark areas of little returned signal.