Although field measurements represent truth by definition, it is a truth that is composed of the superposition of many simultaneous effects and processes. For a few situations, we can attempt to isolate or focus on one specific process by the careful selection of a field site (e.g., uniform terrain) or weather pattern (e.g., fair weather). However, we can never fully isolate anyone process, and the weather is rarely reproducible. Also, it is difficult to do sensitivity studies by systematically altering certain physical parameters, and then measuring the effects. We can partially circumvent these difficulties by creating an artificial turbulent domain where only a limited number of processes or boundary conditions acts on the flow. Such simulations can be created physically in laboratory tanks and wind tunnels, or numerically via computer models. In both cases, we must (1) create a model of the real atmospheric situation, (2) run the model to generate the turbulence (3) sample the turbulent field much the same way the the real atmosphere is sampled and (4) compute turbulence statistics (fluxes and means) from the sampled field. If sufficient care is taken to create a realistic model, then we can often learn more, faster, and with less expense than by conducting a field program.;In Chapters 25 the equations of motion were Reynolds averaged to statistically separate the mean flow from the turbulent perturbations. Instead of taking that route, suppose we use the raw equations of motion to forecast velocities and temperatures at every point in a (hypothetical) modeled turbulent domain then we should be able to forecast turbulent motions deterministically. For example, in certain regions we might see warm updrafts simulating convective thermals, other points simulating wave motions, and yet others exhibiting apparently random variations characteristic of isotropic turbulence.;In Chapters 25 the equations of motion were Reynolds averaged to statistically separate the mean flow from the turbulent perturbations. Instead of taking that route, suppose we use the raw equations of motion to forecast velocities and temperatures at every point in a (hypothetical) modeled turbulent domain then we should be able to forecast turbulent motions deterministically. For example, in certain regions we might see warm updrafts simulating convective thermals, other points simulating wave motions, and yet others exhibiting apparently random variations characteristic of isotropic turbulence.s;Fig. 10.3 Eddies larger (wave numbers smaller) than 21x are explicitly resolved by the model. while smaller eddies are subgrid scale and must be parameterized. If the grid spacing is such that only the largest moreenergetic eddies are resolved, then the model is called a largeeddy Simulation model.