GEOGRAPHIC EFFECfS 595more diffuse. In many parts of the world we find mountains bordering the sea. At these locations both the sea breeze and the valley breeze can interact and unite to form stronger flows, or can counteract and oppose each other (Fitzjarrald, 1984, 1986 Kitada, 1986 Wakimoto and McElroy, 1986 Neff and King, 1987). The occasional presence of low level jets near these mountainous coasts can also be superimposed on the mountain and sea breezes. Seabreeze circulations have been modeled both analytically (Rotunno, 1983) and numerically. The simpler models are often twodimensional, hydrostatic, nonturbulent, steadystate approximations, where crosswind uniformity and sometimes linearity are assumed. Some of the more sophisticated models have used thirdorder closure or three dimensions (Martin and Pielke, 1983 Briere, 1987).;Land Breeze. At night, land surfaces usually cool faster than the neighboring water bodies, reversing the temperature gradient that was present during the day. The result is a land breeze cold air from land flows out to sea at low levels, warms, rises, and returns aloft toward land (antilandbreeze) where it eventually descends to close the circulation. The land breeze is believed to be analogous to the sea breeze, although there have been insufficient observations of its propagation across the water to be conclusive.;Inland Sea Breeze. Some modeling studies have suggested that mesoscale variations of surface moisture over land can induce mesoscale circulations analogous to the sea breeze (Segal and Pielke, 1987 Yan and Anthes, 1987, personal communication). This type of circulation, called the inland sea breeze, is believed to be strongest where moist vegetated surfaces are adjacent to drier surfaces. In some cases, the circulations in these regions might be large enough to trigger or enhance precipitation. It is believed that swaths of moist soil from a previous thunderstorm passage over an otherwise dry land surface can create a sufficiently large moisture inhomogeneity to generate the inland sea breeze. In the western plains of the United States, large farms using centerpivot irrigation systems or banded irrigated crops can also create the necessary surface inhomogeneities. Deforestation and urbanization might be similar mechanisms causing inadvertent climate modification.;When air flows over a variety of surfaces, each surface characteristic affects the flow. For example, suppose that there is a flat semiinfrnite plot of land that is dry, unvegetated, and smooth. Downwind of that plot is another flat plot that is vegetated, moist, and rough. A boundary layer will develop over the first field that is in equilibrium with the surface forcings. When this air crosses the border and flows over the neighboring field, the bottom of the boundary layer will be modified by the new surface features, and the depth of this modified air will increase with distance downwind of the border. Above this modified layer, the boundary layer does not feel the new surface, and continues to behave as it did over the upwind surface.