To demonstrate the closure problem, recall from equations 3.5.3 in Chapter 3 that the forecast equation for a mean variable such as potential temperature has at least one;To demonstrate the closure problem, recall from equations 3.5.3 in Chapter 3 that the forecast equation for a mean variable such as potential temperature has at least oneturbulence term in it, such as a(uj 8)i)xj. A quantity like uj 8 is called a double;turbulence term in it, such as a(uj 8)i)xj. A quantity like uj 8 is called a doublecorrelation, or a second statistical moment. To eliminate this as an unknown we derived a forecast equation for it in Chapter 4 (equation 4.4.3). Unfortunately, this equation contained additional triple correlation (third moment) terms such as;8 u. u . . As you might expect, if we were to write an equation for this third moment, it , J would contain a fourthmoment quantity.;terms, one for each value of i and j. Of these 9 terms, 6 remain as unknowns because ofsymmetries in the tensor matrix (e.g., 8u I u2   8u2 u I ). Similar problems occur for;symmetries in the tensor matrix (e.g., 8u I u2   8u2 u I ). Similar problems occur forthe turbulence equations for momentum, as is shown in Table 61. There is an easy way to anticipate which unknowns remain at any level of closure after symmetries are considered, as is shown in Table 62 for momentum correlations. In the full equations of motion there are additional unknowns such as pressure correlations and terms involving viscosity.;Table 61 . Simplified example showing a tally of equations and unknowns for various statistical moments of momentum, demonstrating the closure problem for turbulent flow. The full set of equations includes even more unknowns.;Prognostic Moment Equation Number Number of Ea. fgi Q! Ilial. !.IokoQlI!!ol;Ui au. au.u . First    J 3 6 at aXj;Ui au. au.u . First    J 3 6 at aXjuiu au.u. a u.u.uk  Second  J   J 6 10 at a;uiu au.u. a u.u.uk  Second  J   J 6 10 at aau.u.u k a u.u.u u  u.u.uk  Third  J  ...   J k m 10 15 I J at aXm