The neglect of the storage layer works well for quasisteadystate situations where there is no appreciable change in the mean temperature of that layer. It also works well for flat barren land surfaces, and for waveless sea surfaces. During a late morning sunny day over land, Qs is positive because there is more downward radiation entering the layer than leaving upward. QH and QE are positive because of heat and moisture transport away upward from the surface. Qo is positive when heat is conducted downward into the ground from the warm surface (see Fig 7.3a). At night over land, Qs is often negative because of the net upward longwave radiative cooling to space. QH is negative because of a downward heat flux from the air. Dew or frost formation makes QE negative. Conduction of heat from the warm ground up to the cooler surface makes Qo negative. The release of stored heat from the layer makes f.Qg negative (see Fig 7.3b). The daytime and nighttime examples above demonstrate a classical behavior where the budget terms were either all positive duri!j the day, or all negative at night. Typical diurnal evolution of terms in (7.2a) is shown in Fig 7.4 for a vegetated land surface at mid latitudes.;N E  200 )( .2 u. 0r1  QG  heat into ground  ..;Fig. 7.4 Energy balance components for 25 July 1976. with cloudless skies at Pitt Meadows, Canada (49N) over a 0 .25 m tall stand of irrigated mixed orchard and rye grass (after Oke, 1978).;Other nonclassical situations occur in nature, such as the oasis effect. Picture warm dry air blowing over a cool moist oasis (Fig 7.3c). There is strong evaporation from the moist ground and plants into the air, resulting in latent cooling that keeps the oasis at a pleasant temperature. However, this upward latent heat flux is opposed by a downward sensible heat flux from the warm air to the cool ground. Thus, QE and Qs are positive, while QH is negative. If we focus on just these three terms, we see that the latent heat flux can be greater in magnitude than the solar heating, because of the additional energy that is extracted from the warm air by evaporation. The ocean budget behaves differently than the land budget because turbulence in the water can efficiently transport heat away from the surface and distribute it deeper in the