Ii  df  we  r dt at Zj (7.4.3b);Ii  df  we  r dt at Zj (7.4.3b)using we  d Zjdt (in the absence of subsidence or clouds) and IlT  nt,Zj)  r.;But from (3.5.3) we know that the change in moisture in the mixed layer Iidt is;But from (3.5.3) we know that the change in moisture in the mixed layer Iidt iscaused by various sources and sinks, dfldtj, including flux divergence of surface flux;Comparing (7.4.3b) and (7.4.3c), we conclude that FlOp  wrIZi  wer . One;Comparing (7.4.3b) and (7.4.3c), we conclude that FlOp  wrIZi  wer . Onemust remember that this interfacial flux occurs only when there is turbulent entrainment of air across the capping interface.;One alternative to the detailed modeling of surface temperature and soil moisture, as used in the previous section to filld the heat, moisture, and momentum fluxes, is direct partitioning of the incoming solar radiative flux, described next. Over land in clearsky situations with weak or no advection, the fluxes of sensible and latent heat from the surface are governed by the diurnal cycle of solar radiation. Consider, for example, a situation where initially the sun is turned off, and the ground and air are at the same temperature. After turning on the sun with a constant net radiation of Q, the surface will wann. As it wanns, a sensible heat flux will develop to remove some of the excess heat from the ground surface to the air. If the ground is moist, evaporation will also remove heat. Some heat will also be conducted into the ground. If the removal of heat by sensible, latent, and ground fluxes is insufficient to balance the incoming Q, then the surface temperature will continue to wann. A it does, the sensible, latent, and ground fluxes will also increase until an equilibrium condition is finally reached where incoming radiative flux is balanced by outgoing turbulent and molecular fluxes. Although the surface temperature is important in creating this equilibrium, at equilibrium the fluxes must balance regardless of that temperature. This argument suggests a parameterization where the net incoming radiation can be split or partitioned directly into the other fluxes of sensible, latent, and ground flux as governed by (7.2c), without requiring a forecast of ground surface temperature. In other words, the incoming radiation is an external forcing, while the sensible (QH) latent (QE) and ground fluxes (Qo) are the response. The flux into the ground is often a small, but