(9.7.5g)where the function I(zL) is given for stable conditions (zL  0) by;(9.7.5h)and for unstable (zL  0 ) by;(9.7.5i)where x  1  (l5zL)14. This last equation was presented by Paulson (1970), although alternative expressions that are more easily solved on computer were presented by Nickerson and Smiley (1975) and Benoit (1977). In the limit of statically neutral flow (zL  0), both of these relationships reduce to the log wind proflle. When (9.7.5g and h) are combined, the resulting equation describes a loglinear;where x  1  (l5zL)14. This last equation was presented by Paulson (1970), although alternative expressions that are more easily solved on computer were presented by Nickerson and Smiley (1975) and Benoit (1977). In the limit of statically neutral flow (zL  0), both of these relationships reduce to the log wind proflle. When (9.7.5g and h) are combined, the resulting equation describes a loglinearprofile, because M depends on both In(z) and linearly on zL. As plotted in Fig 9.5, the linear term causes the winds in the surface layer to increase with height faster than those of a neutral profile. This feature is expected on the underside of the nocturnal jet. Clearly the equation fails near the top of the nocturnal boundary layer, where the wind speed reaches a maximum and then frequently decreases with height. Thus, we must be content with applying the loglinear proftle only within the stable surface layer.;Fluxes and Scaling Parameters. If the stability and the flux or stress is known in advance, then the integrated BusingerDyer relationships can be solved directly for the wind speed or the potential temperature at any height. Often, these equations are used in reverse, to estimate the flux knowing the mean wind or temperature profile. This is much more difficult. For example, u., appears in a number of places in the right hand side of (9.7.5gi) once explicitly, and additional times hidden in L. Funhermore, L is a function of the heat flux, which must simultaneously be estimated from the temperature profile. Th resulting coupled set of equations is very difficult to solve, and often involves an iterative approach. One way around this problem is to simplify the flux profile relationships. For statically unstable conditions, Businger, et.al. (1971) found