 The wind speed varies in an irregular pattern  a characteristic signature of turbulence. This quasirandomness is what makes turbulence different from other motions, like waves.  We can visually pick out a mean, or typical, value of the wind speed. For example, between noon and 1230 local time the avemge wind speed is about 6 mis, while a bit later (between 1400 and 1430) the winds have decreased to about 5 mls on the average. The ability to find a statisticallystable mean value suggests that turbulence is not completely random.  The wind speeds do not vary from 0 to 100 mls in this graph, but rather vary over a limited range of speeds. In other words, there is a measurable and definable intensity to the turbulence that shows up on this graph as the vertical spread of wind speed. The turbulence intensity appears to decrease between noon and 1400 local time. Near noon the instantaneous wind speed is often 1 mls faster or slower than the mean, while at 1400 the wind speed varies by only about 0.5 mls about its mean. Such a bounded characteristic of the wind speed means that we can use statistics such as the variance or standard deviation to characterize the turbulence intensity.  There appears to be a wide variety of timescales of wind variation superimposed on top of each other. If we look closely we see that the time period between each little peak in wind speed is about a minute. The larger peaks seem to happen about every 5 min. There are other variations that indicate a 10 min time period. The smallest detectable variations on this chart are about 10 s long. If each of these time variations is associated with a different size turbulent eddy (Taylors hypothesis. See exercise 5 in Chapter 1), then we can conclude that we are seeing the signature of eddies ranging in size from about 50 m to about 3000 m. In other words, we are observing evidence of the spectrum of turbulence.;The turbulence spectrum is analogous to the spectrum of colors that appears when you shine a light through a prism. White light consists of many colors (i.e., many wavelengths or frequencies) superimposed on one another. The prism is a physical device that separates the colors. We could measure the intensity of each color to learn the magnitude of its contribution to the original light beam. We can perform a similar analysis on a turbulent signal using mathematical rather than physical devices to learn about the contribution of each different size eddy to the total turbulence kinetic energy. Figure 2.2 shows an example of the spectrum of wind speed measured near the ground. The ordinate is a measure of the portion of turbulence energy that is associated with a particular size eddy. The abscissa gives the eddy size in terms of the time period and frequency of the windspeed variation. Small eddies have shorter time periods than large eddies (again, using Taylors hypothesis). Peaks in the spectrum show which size eddies contribute the most to the turbulence kinetic energy. The leftmost peak with a period of near 100 h corresponds to wind speed variations associated with the passage of fronts and weather systems. In other words,