MEAN BOUNDARY LAYER CHARACfERISTICS 5eddies because they are produced directly by the forcings discussed above. Cats paws on lake surfaces and looping smoke plumes provide evidence of the larger eddies.; Smaller size eddies are apparent in the swirls of leaves and in the wavy motions of the grass. These eddies feed on the larger ones. The smallest eddies, on the order of a few millimeters in size, are very weak because of the dissipating effects of molecular viscosity. Turbulence is several orders of magnitude more effective at transporting quantities than is molecular diffusivity. It is turbulence that allows the boundary layer to respond to changing surface forcings. The frequent lack of turbulence above the boundary layer means that the rest of the free atmosphere cannot respond to surface changes. Stated more directly, the free atmosphere behaves as if there were no boundary to contend with, except in sense of mean wind flowing over the boundarylayertop height contours.;We often need information on the size of eddies and on the scales of motions in the boundary layer. Unfortunately, it is difficult to create a snapshot picture of the boundary layer. Instead of observing a large region of space at an instant in time, we find it easier to make measurements at one point in space over a long time period. For example, meteorological instruments mounted on a tower can give us a time record of the boundary layer as it blows past our sensors. In 1938, G. I. Taylor suggested that for some special cases, turbulence might be considered to be frozen as it advects past a sensor. Thus, the wind speed could be used to translate turbulence measurements as a function of time to their corresponding measurements in space. We must keep in mind that turbulence is not really frozen. Taylors simplification is thus useful for only those cases where the turbulent eddies evolve with a timescale longer than the time it takes the eddy to be advected past a sensor (Powell and Elderkin, 1974). Let U and Y represent the eastwardmoving and northwardmoving Cartesian wind components, and let M represent the total wind magnitude (speed) given by M2  U2  y2. If an eddy of diameter A. is advected at mean wind speed M, then the time period P for it to pass by a stationary sensor is given by P  A.  M . Suppose that some variable like temperature varies from one side of the eddy to the other. Then the temperature measured at our sensors would vary with time as the eddy advects past. For example, Fig l.4a shows an initial condition where an eddy of 1 ()() m in diameter is beginning to advect past our sensor tower. The leading side of the eddy, at a temperature of 10C, is warmer than the trailing side, at only 5C. This is our spatial description of the eddy at an instant in time. Namely, the temperature gradient across the eddy is i)Ti)xd  0.05 KIm, where xd is in a direction parallel to the mean wind. At that initial instant, our sensor on the tower measures a temperature of 10C. If the wind speed were 10 mis, then the sensor would measure a temperature of 5C ten seconds later, assuming that the eddy has not changed as it advected by (Fig l.4b). The local change of temperature with time measured at our sensor is i)Ti)t  0.5 Kls. We see that