TURBULENCE KINETIC ENERGY 167at these sizes however. Instead, there is the cascade or transport of energy away from the large size eddies towards the smaller sizes where it is deposited. At the smalleddy end of the spectrum (large wavenumber of 1001000), the production terms are near zero. Instead, dissipation is large. One measure of the smallest scales of turbulence is the Kolmogorov microscale, 11,;at these sizes however. Instead, there is the cascade or transport of energy away from the large size eddies towards the smaller sizes where it is deposited. At the smalleddy end of the spectrum (large wavenumber of 1001000), the production terms are near zero. Instead, dissipation is large. One measure of the smallest scales of turbulence is the Kolmogorov microscale, 11,given by 11  (v3e) 14. This scaling assumes that the smallest eddies see only turbulent;given by 11  (v3e) 14. This scaling assumes that the smallest eddies see only turbulentenergy cascading down the spectrum at rate e, and feel only the viscous damping of v. For the example of Fig 5.16, 11  1 rom, which occurs at a normalized frequency of about 3000. The nature of the atmospheric turbulence spectrum is directly related to the fact that production and dissipation are not happening at the same scales. Production is feeding only the larger size eddies (anisotropically, as we learned earlier), but dissipation is acting only on the smaller sizes. Thus, the rate of transport across the middle part of the spectrum is equal to the rate of dissipation, e, at the smalleddy end. Such transfer can be thought of as happening inertially  larger eddies creating or bumping into smaller ones, and transferring some of their inertia in the process. This middle portion of the spectrum is called the inertial subrange.;Sh.ar production i 0.3 (b)  0.2 ...  cO) 0. UJ 0 e f ii 0. i O.2;Fig. 5.16larg6 ddles fz  KZ small eddies U Example 01 spectral energy budget terms lor zlL  0.29. Shown in (b) are the shear and buoyant production and the dissipation terms as lunctions 01 Irequency f. The shaded curve (labelled ilTr(l)  ill) is equal to minus the sum 01 the shear, buoyant production and dissipation terms. The Tr(l) curve (a) was obtained by integrating ilTr(l)  ill. Here Tr(l) is the transler 01 energy in I space required to balance the production and dissipation. The symbol I is Irequency and K is wave number. After McBean and Elliott (1975 .