Numerical simulation using digital computers has been very popular since the 1960s, with many discoveries that were verified years later with field studies. Most of these computer simulations employ the stochastic method of modeling fluid flow. Unfortunately, a difficulty known as the closure problem has meant that each of these models has at best been able to only approximate the governing equations, with uncertainties introduced via a necessary parameterization of the unknowns. That same closure problem has limited the avenues for theoretical studies involving analytical solutions. For the most part, only highly simplified approximations to the boundary Jayer have been amenable to direct solution. If anything, these difficulties have stimulated, rather than stifled, the work of micrometeorologists. There is an underlying assumption in meteorology that subsynopticscale phenomena such as turbulence might be responsible, in part, for the difficulty in making quality weather forecasts beyond a few days. Thus, part of the effort in boundary layer meteorology involves the search for adequate turbulence parameterization schemes for largerscale numerical forecast models. Additional motivation has come from concern over our environment. Every species of animal and plant modifies its environment the human species, however, is in a position to recognize the consequences of its pollution and take appropriate action. Since most of the anthropogenic effluents are emitted from nearsurface sources, the resulting dispersion of the pollutants is tied to boundary layer processes. As a result, airpollution meteorology is an applied form of micrometeorology. Other applications include agricultural meteorology, where airborne transport of chemicals necessary to plant life is governed by turbulence. Nocturnal processes such as frost formation warrant improved study and forecast methods for crop protection. Fog and low stratocumulus, which inhibit aviation operations, are essentially boundary layer phenomena. Windgenerated power, a popular energy source for centuries, has had a recent increase in interest as wind turbines have been designed to extract energy more efficiently from the boundary layer wind. Other structures such as bridges and buildings must be designed to withstand wind gusts appropriate to their sites.;The role of the boundary layer on our lives is put into perspective when we compare the characteristics of the boundary layer and free atmosphere (Table II). A taste of the importance of the BL is given in the following summary  People spend most of their lives in the BL.  Daily weather forecasts of dew, frost, and maximum and minimum temperatures are really BL forecasts.  Pollution is trapped in the BL.  Fog occurs within the BL.  Some aviation, shipping, and other commerce activities conducted within it.  Air masses are really boundary layers in different parts of the globe that have equilibrated with their underlying surface. Baroclinicity is generated this way.