The second correlation tenns are approximated as functions of gradients of meanvalues (e.g., the vertical flux of temperature, w 9  flows down the local vertical gradient;values (e.g., the vertical flux of temperature, w 9  flows down the local vertical gradientof temperature dedZ). Similarly, the triple correlation terms are approximated as functions of gradients of second correlations (e.g., the vertical flux of temperature;of temperature dedZ). Similarly, the triple correlation terms are approximated as functions of gradients of second correlations (e.g., the vertical flux of temperaturevariance w 9,2 flows down the local vertical gradient of temperature variance a9 ,2az).;The higherorder closure is thus very similar to the fIrstorder closure  both depend on the local gradients and values of knowns. The viscous dissipation tenns of TKE and temperature variance are modeled as being proportional to their respective variables. For this reason, dissipation rates are sometimes used as a measure of the intensity of turbulence. More intense turbulence dissipates faster;The higherorder closure is thus very similar to the fIrstorder closure  both depend on the local gradients and values of knowns. The viscous dissipation tenns of TKE and temperature variance are modeled as being proportional to their respective variables. For this reason, dissipation rates are sometimes used as a measure of the intensity of turbulence. More intense turbulence dissipates fasterthan weaker turbulence. The modeled dissipation rate has a timescale of Me 12. The Yc;than weaker turbulence. The modeled dissipation rate has a timescale of Me 12. The Ycparameter is added to the parameterization of w 9 to allow heat flux even when there is;parameter is added to the parameterization of w 9 to allow heat flux even when there isno mean gradient. This allows better representations of mixed layers. The pressure and turbulent transport tenns assume that transport is down the mean TKE gradient. The set of equations given by (6.5a  b) is too complex to solve analytically. Typically, these equations are approximated by their fInite difference equivalents, and then solved numerically on a digital computer. Figs 6.4 through 6.6 shows a boundarylayer numerical simulation of a two day period from the Wangara field experiment. This simulation, produced by Yamada and Mellor using their oneandahalforder closure, not only shows the evolution of mean quantities such as wind (Fig 6.4) and virtual potential temperature (Fig 6.5), but it also shows the evolution of TKE (refer back to Fig 5.1) and temperature variance (Fig 6.6).;CI 025 d ... . 0. 05 0.05 .i.. l 0t5 0 .10 ....   0.05 xh. LL I . 0 12 18 0 6 12 18 0 6 t(h) !Oay33 4 Oay34 4 Oay3s!;Fig. 6.6 Simulated (1 12 order closure) time and space variation of e! (virtual potential temperature variance, units K 2). Maximum values at the surface are 0.79 and 1.9K at 1300 on Day 33 and 1400 on Day 34 of Wangara, respectively (after Yamada and Mellor, 1975).