Range of terms in the turbulent kinetic energy budget for a cloud  topped tropical boundary layer. The transport term is split into the pressure correlation (PC) and turbulent transport in parts. After Nicholls, et al. (1982).;Range of terms in the turbulent kinetic energy budget for a cloud  topped tropical boundary layer. The transport term is split into the pressure correlation (PC) and turbulent transport in parts. After Nicholls, et al. (1982).the previous chapters, this flux is positive and decreases roughly linearly with height within the bottom 23 of the convective ML. Near the ground, term III is large and positive, corresponding to a large generation rate of turbulence whenever the underlying surface is warmer than the air. When positive, this term represents the effects of thermals in the ML. Active thermal convection is associated with large values of this term, as large as 1 x 10,2 m2 s J near the ground. Thus, we often associate this term with sunny days over land, or cold air advection over a warmer underlying surface. For cloudy days over land, it can be much smaller. In convective boundary layers capped with actively growing cumulus clouds, the positive buoyancy within the cloud can contribute to the production (term Ill) of TKE (see Fig 5.5). Between this cloud layer contribution and the contribution near the bottom of the subcloud layer. there may be a region near cloud base where the air is statically stable and the buoyancy term is therefore negative. Because Term III is so important on days of free convection, it is often used to normalize all the other terms. For example. using the definitions of w. and Zj presented;the previous chapters, this flux is positive and decreases roughly linearly with height within the bottom 23 of the convective ML. Near the ground, term III is large and positive, corresponding to a large generation rate of turbulence whenever the underlying surface is warmer than the air. When positive, this term represents the effects of thermals in the ML. Active thermal convection is associated with large values of this term, as large as 1 x 10,2 m2 s J near the ground. Thus, we often associate this term with sunny days over land, or cold air advection over a warmer underlying surface. For cloudy days over land, it can be much smaller. In convective boundary layers capped with actively growing cumulus clouds, the positive buoyancy within the cloud can contribute to the production (term Ill) of TKE (see Fig 5.5). Between this cloud layer contribution and the contribution near the bottom of the subcloud layer. there may be a region near cloud base where the air is statically stable and the buoyancy term is therefore negative. Because Term III is so important on days of free convection, it is often used to normalize all the other terms. For example. using the definitions of w. and Zj presentedearlier, it is easy to show that Term III  (wY  Zj at the surface. Dividing (5.1b) by