Fig 2.10 shows that there can be substantial variation in the magnitude of TKE with time at anyone height. Fig 5.1 shows a simulation of TKE over a two day period, where a dramatic increase and decrease of TKE occurs within each diurnal cycle. An increase in TKE from a small early morning value to a larger early afternoon value represents a net storage ofTKE in the air. In panicular, nonturbulent FA air just above the ML top must be spun up (i.e., its turbulence intensity must increase from near zero to the current ML value) as entrainment incorporates it into the ML. Over a land surface experiencing a strong diurnal cycle, typical order of magnitudes for this tenn range from about 5 x tos m2 s3 for surfacelayer air over a 6 h interval, to about 5 x to3 m2 s3 for FA air that is spun up over 15 min (i.e., over a time interval corresponding to t.). Fig 5.2 shows sample observations of TKE made in the surface;Fig 2.10 shows that there can be substantial variation in the magnitude of TKE with time at anyone height. Fig 5.1 shows a simulation of TKE over a two day period, where a dramatic increase and decrease of TKE occurs within each diurnal cycle. An increase in TKE from a small early morning value to a larger early afternoon value represents a net storage ofTKE in the air. In panicular, nonturbulent FA air just above the ML top must be spun up (i.e., its turbulence intensity must increase from near zero to the current ML value) as entrainment incorporates it into the ML. Over a land surface experiencing a strong diurnal cycle, typical order of magnitudes for this tenn range from about 5 x tos m2 s3 for surfacelayer air over a 6 h interval, to about 5 x to3 m2 s3 for FA air that is spun up over 15 min (i.e., over a time interval corresponding to t.). Fig 5.2 shows sample observations of TKE made in the surfacelayer, where TKE varies by about two orders of magnitude. During the later afternoon and evening. a corresponding spin down (i.e., decrease of TKE with time) occurs where dissipation and other losses exceed the production of turbulence. The storage tenn is thus negative during this transition phase.;LEkL   0.0i( o 0 6 .08y 34 .... I.o08y 35l;Fig. 5.1 Modeled time and space variation of e (turbulence kinetic energy. units m2S2 ). for Wangara. From Yamada and Mellor (1975).