Pressure is a concept that is familiar to most meteorologists therefore, we will not dwell on it here. Because pressure is not dependent on direction, we need just one number to describe it at any point in space and time. Thus, pressure is a scalar.;Reynolds stress exists only when the fluid is in turbulent motion. A turbulent eddy can mix air of different wind speeds into our cube of interest (Fig 2.l6d). When this differentspeed air is incorporated into one face of the cube and not the opposite face, the cube deforms because of the velocity differences between those two faces (Fig 2.16e). The rate that air of different speeds is transported across any face of the cube is just the momentum flux, by definition (see section 2.6). The effect of this flux on the cube is identical to what we would observe if we applied a force on the face of the cube namely, the cube would deform. Thus, turbulent momentum flux acts like a stress, and is called the Reynolds stress. In this example, air moving upward (possessing w), was mixed towards the cube (at rate u), resulting in a Reynolds stress component described by;Reynolds stress exists only when the fluid is in turbulent motion. A turbulent eddy can mix air of different wind speeds into our cube of interest (Fig 2.l6d). When this differentspeed air is incorporated into one face of the cube and not the opposite face, the cube deforms because of the velocity differences between those two faces (Fig 2.16e). The rate that air of different speeds is transported across any face of the cube is just the momentum flux, by definition (see section 2.6). The effect of this flux on the cube is identical to what we would observe if we applied a force on the face of the cube namely, the cube would deform. Thus, turbulent momentum flux acts like a stress, and is called the Reynolds stress. In this example, air moving upward (possessing w), was mixed towards the cube (at rate u), resulting in a Reynolds stress component described byp u w . The magnitude of this component of Reynolds stress or momentum flux in;p u w . The magnitude of this component of Reynolds stress or momentum flux inkinematic units is thus I u w I. Sometimes the symbol tReynolds is used for the Reynolds;kinematic units is thus I u w I. Sometimes the symbol tReynolds is used for the Reynoldsstress. Even if we consider just one face of the cube (Fig 2.16f), air moving in anyone of the three Cartesian directions could be mixed into it, resulting in a variety of deformations.;For that one face, we must consider lJ1li, iiV, and u w . Since the same number ofcombinations holds for faces normal to the other two cartesian directions, we have a total of nine components of the Reynolds stress to account for. Based on what we learned in section 2.6, this is expected because there are nine components of the momentum flux. Lets consider one other example. Suppose a u wind gust is being turbulently mixed towards the top face of a cube at rate w, as is sketched in Fig 2.16g. The resulting;combinations holds for faces normal to the other two cartesian directions, we have a total of nine components of the Reynolds stress to account for. Based on what we learned in section 2.6, this is expected because there are nine components of the momentum flux. Lets consider one other example. Suppose a u wind gust is being turbulently mixed towards the top face of a cube at rate w, as is sketched in Fig 2.16g. The resultingdeformation shown in Fig 2.16h is associated with a w u  momentum flux. The nature of;deformation shown in Fig 2.16h is associated with a w u  momentum flux. The nature ofthe deformation shown in Fig 2.16h is identical to that of Fig 2.16e the only difference is that (e) is rotated relative to the orientation of (h). Based on the nature of the deformation;the deformation shown in Fig 2.16h is identical to that of Fig 2.16e the only difference is that (e) is rotated relative to the orientation of (h). Based on the nature of the deformationalone, we must then conclude that uw  w u. Fig 2.16i shows the type of;alone, we must then conclude that uw  w u. Fig 2.16i shows the type ofdeformation that is exhibited by both Figs 2.16 e and h, without regard to the rotational differences. Similar arguments can be made for the other faces. We can conclude that the Reynolds stress tensor (represented by the elements in the matrix below) is symmetric