elsewhere (8.4.3)for 0.9 N  k  N;When this window weight, W(k), is multiplied by the time series, A(k), the result yields a modified time series with fluctuations that decrease in amplitude at the beginning and end of the series (see Fig 8.7g). The Fourier transform can then be performed in this modified time series. The bell taper data window is not without its problems. Although the tapered ends reduced the leakage, they also reduce our ability to resolve spectral amplitude differences between small changes in frequencies. Also, the tapered window reduces highfrequency noise at the expense of introducing lowfrequency noise. The process of detrending, despiking (removing erroneous data points), filtering, and bell tapering is known as conditioning the data. Conditioning should be used with caution, because anytime data is modified, errors or biases can be introduced. The best recommendation is to do as little conditioning as is necessary based on data qUality.;The fast Fourier transform, or F FT, is nothing more than a discrete Fourier transform that has been factored and restructured to take advantage of the binary computation processes of the digital computer. As a result, it produces the same output, and has the same limitations and requirements as the discrete transform. It can also be used for forward as well as inverse transforms. The description that follows is not meant to be a comprehensive review of FFT methods, but is designed to give an overview of the process. In general, both the forward and the inverse discrete transform can be written as;The fast Fourier transform, or F FT, is nothing more than a discrete Fourier transform that has been factored and restructured to take advantage of the binary computation processes of the digital computer. As a result, it produces the same output, and has the same limitations and requirements as the discrete transform. It can also be used for forward as well as inverse transforms. The description that follows is not meant to be a comprehensive review of FFT methods, but is designed to give an overview of the process. In general, both the forward and the inverse discrete transform can be written aswhere