406 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOOYcomplex and expensive in their own right, and can often hold or carry many instrument systems. Power supplies, cooling, sheltering or shielding, and accommodations for humans are sometimes part of the platform. Calibration against known standards either should be performed periodically during the measuring program, or should be accomplished continuously as an intrinsic function of the sensor or instrument package. Uncalibrated data is worthless data. Finally, the measured values should be displayed on printers, plotters, or video displays in order to confIrm the operation of the instrument. Display can be real time showing the raw or digitized values, pseudorealtime (within 5 to 30 minutes) showing summary tables and average statistics, or daily postprocessing. It would be embarrassing to perform a long field experiment only to discover in the post experiment analysis phase that all the data is bad, missing, improperly recorded or uncalibrated. Boundary layer data are split into two categories those obtained from mean value sensors, and those from fastresponse sensors. Fastresponse sensors are used for measuring the turbulent fluctuations, from which we directly calculate turbulence kinetic energies, fluxes, and higher moments. These instruments are often complex, delicate and expensive. In the surface layer, turbulent eddies are relatively small and short lived, requiring sensors that have faster responses than ones used to measure eddies in the middle or top of the convective boundary layer. At nighttime, turbulence is sometimes weaker, requiring sensitive sensors that have a good signaltonoise ratio. Fastresponse instruments are also generally more costly to maintain, and require more expensive data logging equipment. The sensors are often small and delicate in order to achieve the fast response, and are thus vulnerable to damage by insects, precipitation, and mishandling. Either protective shrouds are needed, or replacements must be available. Since virtually all modern data logging is digital, the fast response signals are digitized at rates of once per second up to 50 or tOO times per second, resulting in data sets of thousands to hundreds of thousands of values for just a 20minute record. The data logger must be able to ingest data at these high rates, and be able to store the large volume of data that accumulates. If only mean values are required, then lessexpensive, slowerresponse, moredurable instruments can be used. Based on profiles of mean variables, we can often indirectly calculate turbulence energies and fluxes. Most fIeld experiments involve a mixture of mean and fastresponse sensors, depending on the budget and the goals. Many of the fastresponse sensors can also be used to fmd mean values, but not all. Direct sensors are ones that are placed on some instrument platform to make in situ measurements of the air at the location of the sensor. Remote sensors measure waves that are generated by, or modifIed by, the atmosphere at locations distant from the sensor. These waves propagate from the generation or modifIcation point back to the sensor. Active remote sensors generate their own waves (sound, light, microwave), and have transmitter and receiver components. Passive remote sensors have only receiver components, and measure waves generated by the earth (infrared, microwave), the atmosphere (infrared), or the sun (visible).