In Chapter 1, it was stated that turbulence can be produced by buoyant convective processes (Le., thermals of warm air rising) and by mechanical processes (Le., wind shear). Sometimes one process dominates. When buoyant convective processes dominate, the boundary layer is said to be in a state of free convection. When mechanical processes dominate, the boundary layer is in a state of forced convection. Free convection occurs over land on clear sunny days with light or calm winds. Forced convection occurs on overcast days with stronger winds. In this section, we will focus on freeconvection scales forcedconvection scales have already been introduced in section 2.10. For the freeconvection case, strong solar heating at the surface creates a pronounced diurnal cycle in turbulence and ML depth. In chapter 3, profiles of heat and moisture flux were made nondimensional to remove these diurnal changes. The resulting profiles of heat flux, for example, presented height in terms of a fraction of the total ML depth, and presented flux values as a fraction of the surface flux values. Such a scheme to remove nonstationary effects can be easily applied to other variables, and is quite useful for studying the relative contributions of the various terms in the variance and flux equations just presented. Some of the appropriate scaling variables for free convection conditions are presented here. Appendix A lists a more complete summary of scaling variables.;Length Scale Thermals rise until they hit the stable layer capping the ML. As a result, the thermal size scales to Zj. Thermals are the dominant eddy in the convective boundary layer, and all smaller eddies feed on the thermals for energy. Thus, we would expect many turbulent processes to scale to Zj in convective situations.;Velocity Scale The strong diurnal cycle in solar heating creates a strong heat flux into the air from the earths surface. The buoyancy associated with this flux fuels thethermals. We can define a buoyancy flUX as (gle) we v .;Although the surface buoyancy flux could be used directly as a scaling variable, it is usually more convenient to generate a velocity scale instead, using the two variables we know to be important in free convection buoyancy flux at the surface, and zi. Combining these yields a velocity scale known as the free convection scaling velocity, w., also sometimes called the convective velocity scale for short;Although the surface buoyancy flux could be used directly as a scaling variable, it is usually more convenient to generate a velocity scale instead, using the two variables we know to be important in free convection buoyancy flux at the surface, and zi. Combining these yields a velocity scale known as the free convection scaling velocity, w., also sometimes called the convective velocity scale for shortw.  i (),r;This scale appears to work quite well for example, the magnitude of the vertical velocity fluctuations in thermals is on the same order as w.. For deep MLs with vigorous heating;This scale appears to work quite well for example, the magnitude of the vertical velocity fluctuations in thermals is on the same order as w.. For deep MLs with vigorous heatingat the ground, w. can be on the order of I to 2 mls. Fig 4.1 shows examples of the;at the ground, w. can be on the order of I to 2 mls. Fig 4.1 shows examples of thediurnal variation of w .