When plotted on semilog graph paper (Fig 9.5). a logarithmic relationship such as the wind profile in statically neutral situations appears as a straight line. For nonneutral situations. the wind profile deviates slightly from logarithmic. In stable boundary layers. the wind profile is concave downward on a semilog plot. while unstable boundary layers are concave upward (see Fig 9.5).;Fig. 9.5 Typical wind speed profiles VS. static stability in the surface layer.;9.7.1 Wind Profile in Statically Neutral Conditions;To estimate the mean wind speed. M. as a function of height. z. above the ground, we speculate that the following variables are relevant surface stress (represented by the friction velocity. u.), and surface roughness (represented by the aerodynamic roughness length, zo) Upon applying Buckingham Pi Theory, we find the;To estimate the mean wind speed. M. as a function of height. z. above the ground, we speculate that the following variables are relevant surface stress (represented by the friction velocity. u.), and surface roughness (represented by the aerodynamic roughness length, zo) Upon applying Buckingham Pi Theory, we find thefollowing two dimensionless groups Mlu  and zzo Based on the data already plotted in Figs 9.4 and 9.5, we might expect a logarithmic relationship between these two groups;   In  M u.  ( 1) (z) k Zo (9.7.1a);   In  M u.  ( 1) (z) k Zo (9.7.1a)where (Ilk) is a constant of proportionality. As discussed before, the von Karman constant, k, is supposedly a universal constant that is not a function of the flow nof of the surface. The precise value of this constant has yet to be agreed on, but most investigators feel that it is either near k  0.35 or k  0.4. For simplicity. meteorologists often pick a coordinate system aligned with the mean;where (Ilk) is a constant of proportionality. As discussed before, the von Karman constant, k, is supposedly a universal constant that is not a function of the flow nof of the surface. The precise value of this constant has yet to be agreed on, but most investigators feel that it is either near k  0.35 or k  0.4. For simplicity. meteorologists often pick a coordinate system aligned with the meanwind direction near the surface, leaving V  0 and iJ  M. This gives the form of the log wind profile most often seen in the literature