MEAN BOUNDARY LAYER CHARACfERISTICS 27thickness. so the total inflow of air must equal the outflow. (Nonnally. subsidence would not be able to cause air to penetrate down into the top of the boundary layer. but for simplicity we will assume that the turbulent entrainment rate of air into the top of the boundary layer is exactly equal to the subsidence velocity. Thus. all of the subsiding air would enter the boundary layer.) d) What are the average residence times. P  of air within the boundary layer and the free atmosphere? Residence time is defmed as PVF. where F  volumetric flow rate (volumetime) and V  volume. Neglect horizontal advection out of the United States. e) Compare these residence times with the typical Rossby wave time period (that is. the average time period between cyclone passage over a fixed point). Comment on the significance of these times. 7) Would there be a boundary layer on a planet that had an atmosphere. but that did not experience a diurnal variation of net radiation at the ground? 8) Define the boundary layer in your own tenns. 9) Add five items to the list in section 1.8 regarding the significance of the boundary layer. Hint. look for things close to home. school. or work. 10) a) Given air at a pressure height of 90 kPa (900 mb) with a temperature of 30 C and a mixing ratio of 20 gkg. fmd the virtual potential temperature. b) Given saturated air at 85 kPa (850 mb) with a temperature of 20 C and a total water mixing ratio (i.e . sum of vapor and liquid mixing ratios) of 20 gkg find the virtual potential temperature. (Hint. you might want to employ a thennodynamic diagram.) 11) Given the following virtual potential temperature sounding. identify each layer (example. ML. RL. SBL. FA). Estimate what time of day that sounding was made. and then sketch the virtual potential temperature profile that you might expect four hours later.;thickness. so the total inflow of air must equal the outflow. (Nonnally. subsidence would not be able to cause air to penetrate down into the top of the boundary layer. but for simplicity we will assume that the turbulent entrainment rate of air into the top of the boundary layer is exactly equal to the subsidence velocity. Thus. all of the subsiding air would enter the boundary layer.) d) What are the average residence times. P  of air within the boundary layer and the free atmosphere? Residence time is defmed as PVF. where F  volumetric flow rate (volumetime) and V  volume. Neglect horizontal advection out of the United States. e) Compare these residence times with the typical Rossby wave time period (that is. the average time period between cyclone passage over a fixed point). Comment on the significance of these times. 7) Would there be a boundary layer on a planet that had an atmosphere. but that did not experience a diurnal variation of net radiation at the ground? 8) Define the boundary layer in your own tenns. 9) Add five items to the list in section 1.8 regarding the significance of the boundary layer. Hint. look for things close to home. school. or work. 10) a) Given air at a pressure height of 90 kPa (900 mb) with a temperature of 30 C and a mixing ratio of 20 gkg. fmd the virtual potential temperature. b) Given saturated air at 85 kPa (850 mb) with a temperature of 20 C and a total water mixing ratio (i.e . sum of vapor and liquid mixing ratios) of 20 gkg find the virtual potential temperature. (Hint. you might want to employ a thennodynamic diagram.) 11) Given the following virtual potential temperature sounding. identify each layer (example. ML. RL. SBL. FA). Estimate what time of day that sounding was made. and then sketch the virtual potential temperature profile that you might expect four hours later.z