Because of computer limitations, numerical models are limited to a finite number of grid points or wavenumbers for all practical purposes, instead of the infinite number of points in our hypothetical model. Thus, each modeled grid point must represent the average of a small volume of fluid in its immediate neighborhood. Given a grid point spacing of hx, we know from the Nyquist frequency arguments in the previous chapter that the smallest feature that can be represented has a size of 2hx. Features of this size and larger are said to be resolved by the model, and represent gridscale phenomena. Features smaller than 2x are subgrid scale their affect on the flow must be parameterized because they can not be explicitly resolved. Deardorff (1972) pioneered the use of such numerical models for boundary layer simulations, while Wyngaard and Brost (1984) and Moeng (1984a, 1986, 1987) have updated versions. Computer limitations in those models restricted gridpoint spacings to about 150 m in the horizontal and 50 m in the vertical, within a domain of (x,y,z)  (5,5,3) km. These models were called largeeddy simulation (LES) models (see Fig 10.3), because only the largestsize turbulent eddies could be resolved. At each of the over 60,000 grid points in a typical model, forecasts were made for 9, q, u, v and w, with additional diagnostic equations for p. At the time this text was written, such a model would take about an hour of computer CPU time for each hour simulated. The subgrid scale turbulence was parameterized in these models using schemes ranging from Ktheory to secondorder closure.;Because of computer limitations, numerical models are limited to a finite number of grid points or wavenumbers for all practical purposes, instead of the infinite number of points in our hypothetical model. Thus, each modeled grid point must represent the average of a small volume of fluid in its immediate neighborhood. Given a grid point spacing of hx, we know from the Nyquist frequency arguments in the previous chapter that the smallest feature that can be represented has a size of 2hx. Features of this size and larger are said to be resolved by the model, and represent gridscale phenomena. Features smaller than 2x are subgrid scale their affect on the flow must be parameterized because they can not be explicitly resolved. Deardorff (1972) pioneered the use of such numerical models for boundary layer simulations, while Wyngaard and Brost (1984) and Moeng (1984a, 1986, 1987) have updated versions. Computer limitations in those models restricted gridpoint spacings to about 150 m in the horizontal and 50 m in the vertical, within a domain of (x,y,z)  (5,5,3) km. These models were called largeeddy simulation (LES) models (see Fig 10.3), because only the largestsize turbulent eddies could be resolved. At each of the over 60,000 grid points in a typical model, forecasts were made for 9, q, u, v and w, with additional diagnostic equations for p. At the time this text was written, such a model would take about an hour of computer CPU time for each hour simulated. The subgrid scale turbulence was parameterized in these models using schemes ranging from Ktheory to secondorder closure.w 2 mIl;Fig. 10.6 LES of a convective ML showing thermals with vertical velocity greater than 2 mls. (After Moeng. 1984b).