N! covar(A,B)    a. b. N.L.i  i  0;Thus, the nonlinear turbulence products that were introduced in section 2.4.3 have the same meaning as covariances. The covariance indicates the degree of common relationship between the two variables, A and B. For example, let A represent air temperature, T, and let B be the vertical velocity, w. On a hot summer day over land, we might expect the warmer than average air to rise (positive T and positive w), and the cooler than average air to sink (negative T and negative w). Thus, the product wT will be positive on the average,;Thus, the nonlinear turbulence products that were introduced in section 2.4.3 have the same meaning as covariances. The covariance indicates the degree of common relationship between the two variables, A and B. For example, let A represent air temperature, T, and let B be the vertical velocity, w. On a hot summer day over land, we might expect the warmer than average air to rise (positive T and positive w), and the cooler than average air to sink (negative T and negative w). Thus, the product wT will be positive on the average,indicating that w and T vary together. The covariance w T is indeed found to be positive;indicating that w and T vary together. The covariance w T is indeed found to be positivethroughout the bottom 80 of the convective mixed layer. Sometimes, one is interested in a normalized covariance. Such a relationship is defined as the linear correlation coefficient, rAB ;throughout the bottom 80 of the convective mixed layer. Sometimes, one is interested in a normalized covariance. Such a relationship is defined as the linear correlation coefficient, rAB rAB  (2.4.5c);This variable ranges between 1 and 1 by definition. Two variables that are perfectly correlated (i.e., vary together) yield r  1. Two variables that are perfectly negatively correlated (i.e., vary oppositely) yield r  1. Variables with no net variation together yield r  O. Fig 2.7 shows typical correlation coefficients in the ML.;This variable ranges between 1 and 1 by definition. Two variables that are perfectly correlated (i.e., vary together) yield r  1. Two variables that are perfectly negatively correlated (i.e., vary oppositely) yield r  1. Variables with no net variation together yield r  O. Fig 2.7 shows typical correlation coefficients in the ML.z ZI;0.5a LLLLL 0.5 0 0.5 r Fig. 2.7 Correlation coefficient profiles in the convective mixed layer.