KH Waves. KelvinHelmholtz (KH) waves can also exist on a variety of scales in the entrainment zone. On the largest scale, we recognize that there is wind shear between the subgeostrophic ML air and the nearly geostrophic FA air. This shear across the statically stable entrainment zone is ideal for the formation of KH waves, as discussed in Chapter 5. The waves formed in this manner often have a wavelength proportional to the depth of the EZ (i.e., hundreds of meters), and evolve rather slowly. They break, become turbulent, and can contribute to the entrainment of FA air into the ML. On a smaller scale, KH waves can form along the top boundary of overshooting thermals (Fig 11.31, after Rayment and Readings, 1974). The thermals are carrying up the cooler and slower ML air, and their tops are marked by a sharp interface with the FA air. As a result, there can be very strong shears and statically stable lapse rates across a distance of two to ten meters. This situation is ideal for the formation of short wavelength, rapidly evolving KH waves that form, break, and decay into turbulence during the few minutes that the thermal is penetrating into the EZ. The thin layer of turbulence that results along the top helps dilute the thermal, but contributes little to the overall entrainment into the ML.;Fig. 11.31 Smallscale KH waves can form at the top of overshooting thermals as a result of the enhanced shear and stability. (After Rayment and Readings, 1974).; .. Therm., . .  i . Therm., L .  ... .....  . x . 1;Gravity Waves and Resonance with Convection. When thermals penetrate into the statically stable EZ and FA, internal gravity (buoyancy) waves can be excited in the FA (Fig l1.32a). These waves have been observed in laboratory tanks (Deardorff, et al., 1969) and simulated numerically (Deardorff, 1974 Carruthers and Moeng, 1987) with LES models. Depending on the static stability, these waves may propagate vertically and horizontally away from the thermals, and thus drain kinetic energy and momentum from those thermals (Deardorff, 1969). However, it appears that the portion of ML energy drained by internal waves is relatively small, and can usually be neglected (Stull, 1976). Penetrating thermals and associated clouds are often moving at a different speed (usually slower) than the air aloft. As a result, the cloud acts like an obstruction to the