Profile Shapes. The mixed layer (ML) is so named because intense vertical mixing tends to leave conserved variables such as potential temperature and humidity nearly constant with height (see Fig 11 .1). Even wind speed and direction are nearly constant over the bulk of the mixed layer. Sometimes the mixed layer is called the wellmixed layer. The top of the whole convective mixed layer, zi, is often defined as the level of most negative heat flux. This level is near the middle of the entrainment zone, often at the height where the capping inversion is strongest (see Fig 11.1). The capping inversion acts like an interface between the ML and the FA. Another measure of the average ML depth is the height at which an undiluted air parcel rising from the surface becomes neutrally buoyant. Mixing can be generated mechanically by shears, or convectively by buoyancy. Buoyantly generated MLs tend to be more uniformly mixed than ones driven mechanically, because anisotropy in convection favors vertical motions, while shear anisotropy favors horizontal motions. Shears near the ground are usually more important for generating mixing than shears across the top of the ML, for atmospheric situations. Shears at the ML top, however, can cause a separate layer to form. A mixed layer dominated by buoyant turbulence generation is called a convective boundary layer (CBL) or convective mixed layer. Looking more closely at the conserved variables, we find that they are not quite uniform in the vertical, because the mixing process is not instantaneous and because mixing is partially counteracted by forcings acting on the top and bottom of the ML. Potential temperature, for example, is a minimum near the middle of the ML, because heating from below and entrainment of warm air from above lead to slightly warmer potential temperatures in those regions. Moisture, however, often decreases slightly with height, because surface evaporation is adding moisture below, while entrainment of dry air is occurring at the top of the ML.;Equilibrium. The convective time scale, t., is on the order of 1020 minutes in many cases. This is the typical time period for air to circulate between the surface and the top of the ML. Thus, changes in surface heat flux and other surface forcings can be communicated to the rest of the ML in a relatively short time  about 15 minutes. As discussed in the next subsection, the ML depth changes relatively slowly in the early morning and in the afternoon. During these periods the ML is in a state of quasi eqUilibrium, because of the short convective time scale. Similarity theory works well for these cases.