V  A (Sm (l ). (6 A) m n naA (6 .6 )n m n ax m aAn (6mn ) ax m (lAm aXm (2.8.3g);We will have little use for vector notation in the remainder of this book, because summation notation is frequently easier to use. This section was presented only because most meteorologists are familiar with vector notation from their studies of atmospheric dynamics.;We have seen that the covariance statistic describes a turbulent flux. But a momentum flux is analogous to a stress. In this section, we review the nature of stress and relate it to various turbulence statistics. Stress is the force tending to produce deformation in a body. It is measured as a force per unit area. Three types of stress appear frequently in studies of the atmosphere pressure, Reynolds stress, and viscous shear stress.;Pressure is a type of stress that can act on a fluid at rest. For an infinitesimally small fluid element, such as idealized as the cube sketched in Fig 2.16a, pressure acts equally in all directions. Isotropic is the name given to characteristics that are the same in all directions (see Figs 2.4 and 2.5). If we consider just one face of this cube, as in Fig. 2.16b, we see that the isotropic nature of pressure tends to counteract itself in all directions except in a direction normal to (perpendicular to) the surface of the cube. Forces acting normal to all faces of the cube tend to compress or expand the cube, thereby deforming it (Fig 2.l6c).;At sea level, the standard atmospheric pressure is 1.013 x lOs Nm2. A pascal (Pa) is defined as 1 Nm2, thus standard atmospheric pressure at sea level is 101.3 kPa. Historically, millibars (mb) have also been used as a pressure unit, where 1 mb  100;At sea level, the standard atmospheric pressure is 1.013 x lOs Nm2. A pascal (Pa) is defined as 1 Nm2, thus standard atmospheric pressure at sea level is 101.3 kPa. Historically, millibars (mb) have also been used as a pressure unit, where 1 mb  100pascals. In kinematic units, standard sealevel pressure is 82714 m2. Although this value is much larger than the other stresses to be discussed next, it is almost totally counteracted by the influence of gravity, as described by the hydrostatic approximation.