a) pg in units of (mblm), and in units of (kPam) useful for converting between pressure and height coordinates).b) pCp in units of (mb! K), and in units of (kPaIK). State all assumptions used. 23) Given typical mean air densities and virtual potential temperatures at sea level in the boundary layer a) Find the density fluctuation, p, that corresponds to an air parcel with av   2 C. b) Find the vertical acceleration of that air parcel, neglecting pressure and viscous effects. c) Find the pressure fluctuation, p, if the parcel is restrained from accelerating (neglect viscous effects). 24) What magnitude of Vcomponent geostrophic departure (deviation of the actual wind from its geostrophic value) is necessary to cause the Ucomponent of wind to accelerate 5ms in one hour? State all assumptions. 25) Use current weather maps (analyses andor forecasts) to evaluate terms I through IV in (3.3.4) for anyone location of interest such as the town you are in. Do it for low level (BL) data for anyone variable such as potential temperature or humidity. Compare and discuss the magnitudes of these terms.;26) Given u w   0.3 m2 s2, find the value of the Reynolds stress in units of Nm2.;27) Look up the value for thermal diffusivity, va, for air at sea level. Given this value, what curvature in the mean temperature profile would be necessary to cause a warming rate of 5 Khr? Where, if anywhere, would such curvatures be expected to be found in the boundary layer? 28) Given equations (3.5.3), list all of the necessary initial and boundary conditions;27) Look up the value for thermal diffusivity, va, for air at sea level. Given this value, what curvature in the mean temperature profile would be necessary to cause a warming rate of 5 Khr? Where, if anywhere, would such curvatures be expected to be found in the boundary layer? 28) Given equations (3.5.3), list all of the necessary initial and boundary conditionsnecessary to solve those equations for 9, q, U and V. 29) a) Detennine the warming rate in the mixed layer, given the soundings of Fig 3.5. b) Using the heat flux data of Fig 3.2, what percentage of the warming rate from part (a) can be explained by the turbulent flux divergence term? c) Suggest physical mechanisms to explain the remaining percentages of warming. 30) Same as question (30), except for moisture using Figs 3.6 and 3.2.