These five figures can be used as building blocks,to construct the turbulence response for more complex cases. For example, adding (a) and (b) yields the usualline ML heat flux profile (Fig 13.20f). Adding (a) thru (d) gives a profile for an entraining nocturnal stratocumulustopped BL over a warm surface (Fig 13.20g) that looks similar to the data from Stage and Businger (1981). Adding only the radiative contributions yields the response shown in Fig 13.20h, which is similar to the transilient simulations of Stull and Driedonks (1987). Finally, the sum of all components (ae) for the decoupled case yields a curve (Fig 13.20i) resembling the data of Turton and Nicholls (1987) .. Similar constructions can be made to simulate the data of Nicholls and Leighton (1986), Albrecht, et al. (985), Brost, et al. (1982b), and Deardorff (1980). For all of these cases there are noticable changes in many of the turbulent fluxes near cloud top and cloud base, corresponding to changes in the radiative forcing.;There are seven processes that can generate the mixing required to maintain stratocumulus clouds surfacebased (free) convection, differential coldair advection, surfacelayer shear (forced convection), cloudtop radiative cooling, cloudbase radiative heating, cloudlayer shear, and cloudtop entrainment instability. All of these are processes that can be maintained in the absence of strong solar heating of the ground, because we are assuming a broken to overcast stratocumulus deck that shades the ground and attenuates the incoming solar radiation. Also, many of the processes can operate simultaneously. Surfacebased free convection occurs when cold air is advecting over a warmer surface, such as immediately following a cold front passage over land, or cold air masses moving over warmer lakes or ocean currents. The first situation is usually temporary, and disappears as either drier air advects in, or as the heat stored in the ground is lost. The second situation is sometimes seasonal, and is associated with semistationary fog and stratocumulus features such as the stratocumulus clouds off of southern California, or the snow squalls downwind of the Great Lakes. Differential coldair advection. Sometimes after a cold frontal passage, colder air is advected into an area aloft than is advected in at lower levels. The result is a static destabilization of the layer of air, causing convection and cloud formation. Such destabilization can occur even when the surface is colder than the overlying air. Sheargenerated mechanical turbulence associated with strong BL winds can also cause sufficient mixing (forced convection) to maintain the stratocumulus topped ML. Strong winds and the associated surfacelayer shear are also found near fronts and low pressure centers. I Cloudtop radiative cooling creates upsidedown thermals of cold air that sink from clol!d top. This is another form of free convection, and can be important when there are not other higher cloud decks to reduce the infrared cooling from the lowest deck. This process can operate both day and night.