TURBULENCE CLOSURE 201the unknown quantity u.u.u ...  can be parameterized as a function of U. and u.u., 1 J .. 1 1 J because we have prognostic equations for these quantities. One must remember that the equations in Table 61 are only a subset of the full set of equations, therefore secondorder closure can also employ other known flrst and second moments such as e, aefaz. or wq in the parameterization. A parameter is usually a constant, the value of which is determined empirically. For example, the parameter can be a separate term, a multiplicative constant, or the value of a power or exponent. By deflnition, a parameterization is an approximation to nature. In other words, we are replacing the true (natural) equation describing a value with some artiflcially constructed approximation. Sometimes parameterizations are employed because the true physics has yet to be discovered. Other times, the known physics are too complicated to use for a particular application, given cost or computer limitations. Parameterization will rarely be perfect. The hope is that it will be adequate. Parameterization involves human interpretation and creativity. which means that different investigators can propose different parameterizations for the same unknown. In fact, Donaldson (1973) noted that there are more models for closure of the equations of motion at the secondorder correlation level than there are principal investigators working on the problem. Although there is likely to be an infinite set of possible parameterizations for any quantity, all acceptable parameterizations must follow certain commonsense rules. Most importantly, the parameterization for an unknown quantity should be physically reasonable. In addition. the parameterization must  have the same dimensions as the unknown.  have the same tensor properties.  have the same symmetries.  be invariant under an arbitrary transformation of coordinate systems.  be invariant under a Galilean (Le., inertial or Newtonian) transformation.  satisfy the same budget equations and constraints. These rules apply to all orders of closure.; !2a (u.uk) a (u.uk) a (u.u.) Ae J  1  1 J j a k; !2a (u.uk) a (u.uk) a (u.u.) Ae J  1  1 J j a kwhere A is a parameter having the dimension of length (m), and the knowns are e;(turbulence kinetic energy per unit mass, m2s2 ) and u.u. (momentum flux. m2s2 ). 1 J