UO BOUNDARYLAYERNffITEOROUOGYand temperature and moisture variance are used along with the firstmoment equations of Table 61, the result can be classified as oneandahalf order closure. It clearly would not be full secondorder closure because not all of the prognostic equations for the second moments (Le., for the fluxes) are retained, yet it is higher order than firstorder closure. One can similarly define zeroorder closure and halforder closure methods. Two major schools of thought of turbulence closure have appeared in the literature local and nonlocal closure. Neither local nor nonlocal methods are exact, but both appear to work well for the physical situations for which the parameterizations are designed. For local closure, an unknown quantity at any point in space is parameterized by values andor gradients of known quantities at the some point. Local closure thus assumes that turbulence is analogous to molecular diffusion. The Donaldson example in the next section demonstrates a local secondorder closure. In the meteorological literature, local closure has been used at all orders up through third order. For nonlocal closure, the unknown quantity at one point is parameterized by values of known quantities at many points in space. This assumes that turbulence is a superposition of eddies, each of which transports fluid like an advection process. Nonlocal methods have been used mostly with fIrStorder closure. Table 63 summarizes the myriad of closure methods which have often appeared in the meteorological literature. Generally, the higherorder local closures and the nonlocal closures yield more accurate solutions than lower order, but they do so at added expense and complexity.;Table 63. Classification of closure techniques that have been frequently reported in the literature. Bulk and similarity methods are discussed In more detail In Chapters 9, 11 and 12.;Regardless of which order closure is used, there are unknown turbulence terms which must be parameterized as a function of known quantities and parameters. A known quantity is any quantity for which a prognostic or diagnostic equation is retained. Using the equations in Table 61 for example, if we decide to use secondorder closure,