1 16) A yiru1ent gas called cyclonide has recently been detected near weathermap display areas. Meteorologists who enhale this gas frequently become euphoric when hurricanes, tornadoes, lowpressure systems, and other cyclones are being displayed on the weather maps. In your efforts to eliminate this scourge of the meteorological community, you have discovered that cyclonide is neither created nor destroyed but is advected from place to place. If some of this gas escapes into the turbulent boundary layer, you will be asked to forecast its mean concentration. In anticipation of this request, derive the prognostic equation for mean cyclonide concentration. State any assumptions made. 17) Given a kinematic heat flux of 0.2 K mls at the ground, and a flux of 0.1 K mls at the top of a 1 km thick mixed layer, calculate the average warming rate of the mixed layer. 18) Expand the following, and eliminate all terms that are zero;1 16) A yiru1ent gas called cyclonide has recently been detected near weathermap display areas. Meteorologists who enhale this gas frequently become euphoric when hurricanes, tornadoes, lowpressure systems, and other cyclones are being displayed on the weather maps. In your efforts to eliminate this scourge of the meteorological community, you have discovered that cyclonide is neither created nor destroyed but is advected from place to place. If some of this gas escapes into the turbulent boundary layer, you will be asked to forecast its mean concentration. In anticipation of this request, derive the prognostic equation for mean cyclonide concentration. State any assumptions made. 17) Given a kinematic heat flux of 0.2 K mls at the ground, and a flux of 0.1 K mls at the top of a 1 km thick mixed layer, calculate the average warming rate of the mixed layer. 18) Expand the following, and eliminate all terms that are zeroa( cjkl U i Urn 0ki 0jl) ax rn 19) A consortium of personal computer manufacturers has contracted with a local genetic engineering firm to create a new virus call RFV. When humans breath this virus, it causes Ramchip Fever. Symptoms include an insatiable urge to buy a computer, keyboard finger twitch, memory overflow, a love for mouses, and severe joystick spasms. Parents who breath RFV develop a guilt complex that their offspring will flunk out of school unless they buy a computer. The concentration, c, of RFV in the air is governed by the following conservation equation;a( cjkl U i Urn 0ki 0jl) ax rn 19) A consortium of personal computer manufacturers has contracted with a local genetic engineering firm to create a new virus call RFV. When humans breath this virus, it causes Ramchip Fever. Symptoms include an insatiable urge to buy a computer, keyboard finger twitch, memory overflow, a love for mouses, and severe joystick spasms. Parents who breath RFV develop a guilt complex that their offspring will flunk out of school unless they buy a computer. The concentration, c, of RFV in the air is governed by the following conservation equationdc 2 ac T dt;where a is a constant and T is absolute temperature.a) Derive the forecast equation for C in turbulent air. Put it into flux form. b) Scale the answer by assuming horizontal homogeneity and no subsidence.;20) Starting with (3.2.4b), derive a forecast equation for q in turbulent flow. That is, derive an equation like (3.4.4b), except for water vapor only. State all assumptions and simplifications used. 21) If a volume of boundary layer air initially contains 2 gkg of liquid water droplts, and;20) Starting with (3.2.4b), derive a forecast equation for q in turbulent flow. That is, derive an equation like (3.4.4b), except for water vapor only. State all assumptions and simplifications used. 21) If a volume of boundary layer air initially contains 2 gkg of liquid water droplts, andthese droplets completely evaporate during 15 minutes, then find aqat and asat associated with this evaporation. What is the value (with its units) of E, in (3.2.4b) and (3.2.5)?