Sea and Lake Breezes. The large heat capacity of lakes and oceans reduces water surface temperature change to nearzero values during a diurnal cycle. The land surface, however, warms and cools more dramatically because the small molecular conductivity and heat capacity in soils prevents the diurnal temperature signal from propagating rapidly away from the surface. As a result, the land is warmer than the water during the day, and cooler at night. This scenario is ideal for the formation of sea breezes (Lyons, 1975 Simpson, et aI., 1977 Helmis, et al., 1987 Ogawa, et al., 1986). During midmorning (1000 local time) after the nocturnal SBL has been eliminated, air begins to rise over the warm land near the shoreline, and cooler air from the water flows in to replace it. This is known as the seabreeze (or lake breeze). The inland limit of cool air progression over land is known as the seabreeze front, and is marked by lowlevel convergence (in a band about 1 to 2 km wide), a marked temperature drop (often several C hence, it is a mesoscale cold front see Fig 14.6), an increase in humidity, upward motion (of about 0.5 to 2.5 mls), and sometimes enhanced cumulus clouds. A return circulation (the antiseabreeze) of 1 to 2 mls aloft brings the warmer air back out to sea where it descends toward the sea surface to close the circulation (Fig 14.7). The depth of the sea breeze has been observed to be on the order of 100 to 500 m, and the total circulation depth including the return circulation can range from 500 m to 2000 m.;Fig. 14.6 Lakebreeze circulations and the lake breeze front. (After Lyons, 1975.);In some cases the nose of the seabreeze front can be about twice the depth of the trailing flow. The trailing flow is usually faster than the propagation rate of the front, with speeds of up to 5 to 7 mls. As this flow approaches the surface front, a vortexlike pattern sometimes forms at the nose of the flow. After seabreeze frontal passage the turbulence state of the cooler air quickly reaches a new local eqUilibrium, and scales to free convection similarity. The TKE intensity in the nose of the sea breeze can be on the order of twice that of the later equilibrium state (Briere, 1987).