Case H (Fig 8.IOh) Multiple Waves. These examples were constructed in reverse, where the spectrum was specified and the time series was generated with an inverse FFf. When the time series consists of the superposition of a number of different wave periods or wavelengths, the spectrum shows a number of spikes. If some of these waves are between harmonics or longer than the fundamental frequency, then the problems of spreading, leakage, and red noise are superimposed on the other resolvable signals. Also, for the second example, the two frequencies at n  4 and 6 result in a beat frequency of 2, causing the amplitude envelope of the original time series to oscillate as shown.;Case I (Fig 8.10i) Conditioning. The first three examples show one situation of an original time series that is superimposed on a trend. Detrending the time series eliminates the red noise in the spectrum, and tapering the ends has little effect after that. The last two examples show a wave with n  1.5, causing a significant amount of noise in the spectrum. However, after detrending and tapering, the spectrum yields the desired spikes at n  1 and n  2.;Just aswe can fmd the spectrum for a single variable, we can also fmd a spectrum for a product of two variables. For example, given observations of w(t) and 9(t), we can create a new time series w9(t) on which we can perform routine spectral analyses using an FFf. Occasionally it is useful to get more information about the spectrum of w9, such as how the phase of the w fluctuations relate to the phase of the 9 fluctuations as a function of frequency. Crossspectrum analysis relates the spectra of two variables.;Phase refers to the position within one wave, such as at the crest or the trough (Fig 8.11 a). It is often given as an angle. For example, the crest of a sine wave occurs at 90, or at 12 radians. Phase shift refers to the angle between one part of a wave like the crest and some reference point like a start time or the crest of another wave. For example, in Fig 8.11 b the phase of the second wave is shifted 90 to the right of the first wave.;( 27tkn A(k,n)  C(n).sin  )  l(n) (S.8.ta)