In some situations, more than one of the above factors contribute to jet fonnation (Garratt, 1985). Thus. there are many different types of LUs with different characteristics. The fIrst three factors listed above can generate LLJs with subgeostrophic wind speeds. The others can create supergeostrophic winds. LUs are not rare phenomena. Brook reports nocturnal jets on 19 of the winter nights in pans of Australia. with peak speeds reached between midnight and 0500 local time. Bonner (1968) observed North American LUs occurring most frequently in the central plains. particularly in the Kansas and Oklahoma region. where 30 of all rawinsonde soundings had LLJs. Many of these were associated with southerly or southwesterly wind components. and the majority occurred in the late night or early morning. A distinct jet core was observed from Texas to Minnesota. The Somali jet lasts many days. and.reoccurs almost every year with the Indian monsoon. In the following sections two of the LLJ forcings will be examined in detail baroclinicity over sloping terrain. and the inenial oscillation.;Horizontal temperature gradients cause changes of the geostrophic wind with height. as given by the approximate thermal wind relationship (Holton. 1972);Horizontal temperature gradients cause changes of the geostrophic wind with height. as given by the approximate thermal wind relationship (Holton. 1972)g or  f T Cly c;For example. given a southerly geostrophic wind at the swface (i.e . V g is positive). V g will decrease with height if the air is wanner to the west in the northern hemisphere (Figs 12.17a  b). If the actual wind is geostrophic everywhere except near the ground (where friction reduces it below geostrophic). then we see in Fig 12.17b that a LLJ is fonned given the same situation of southerly geostrophic wind. This is an example of a subgeostrophic LU that can occur day or night. although it is less likely to occur during the day because vigorous mixing in the ML would tend to mix the fast LU air with the slower air at adjacent levels. leaving a wellmixed wind profile. The thennal wind associated with baroclinicity can be caused by a variety of forcings. including synopticscale temperature gradients. mesoscale landsea temperature gradients. and gradients across fronts. In regions such as the central USA. sloping terrain can also generate horizontal temperature gradients that change sign with the diurnal cycle (Lettau. 1967 Holton. 1968). This can lead to a diurnal oscillation in the strength of the LU. as shown below.