576 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYapproximations described earlier, but variations in the particular choice of parameterization can lead to estimates of entrainment differing by over a factor of two. It is clear that more work needs to be done to clarify the cloudtop entrainment process in stratocumulus (Hanson, 1984). Some specialized entrainment models have also been proposed based on a limited set of production mechanisms. For example, Rogers, et a1. (1985a) suggested the following entrainment velocity for cloudtop entrainment instability ;(13.5.4a)where Ie is the distance traveled by negatively buoyant entrained elements. When cloud top radiative cooling dominates;(l3.5.4b)where r is the net longwave radiative flux divergence near cloud top, expressed in kinematic units (K mls). Other buoyancy flux production factors have been used in the numerator of the above equation for processes other than radiation. Finally, many entrainment relationships have been proposed relating a dimensionless entrainment velocity to an inverse Richardson number (Nicholls and Turton, 1986);where r is the net longwave radiative flux divergence near cloud top, expressed in kinematic units (K mls). Other buoyancy flux production factors have been used in the numerator of the above equation for processes other than radiation. Finally, many entrainment relationships have been proposed relating a dimensionless entrainment velocity to an inverse Richardson number (Nicholls and Turton, 1986)w. or u. 0 R 1 1 (l3.5.4c);w. or u. 0 R 1 1 (l3.5.4c)where the convective Richardson number, Ri, can be defined in terms of w., u., or other turbulence production scales. Deardorff (1980 and Albrecht, et al., 1985) suggest that critical values of the entrainment velocity can be related to stratocumulus breakup and dissipation. Tag and Payne (1987) note that stratocumulus decks can break up slower in stronger wind shears at cloud top, given that the cloudtop entrainment instability criterion is satisfied.;The following fog types can form in the boundary layer radiation, advection, precipitation (frontal), steam, and upslope. Only the first two will be discussed in more detail here.