 BOUNDARYLAYERNmITEOROLOGYconvective TIBL, and there is a relatively sharp, welldefined top. The ML depth, Zj, grows by entrainment, is suppressed by subsidence, and otherwise evolves as previously discussed for ML growth (Lyons, 1975 Venkatram, 1977 Hsu, 1986 Arritt, 1987 Hanna, 1987 Mitsuta, et al., 1986). TIBLs can occur in winter as cold continental air advects over warmer water, and in summer as air over colder water advects over warmer land. Taylors hypothesis can be invoked to transform the prognostic equations into gradient equations. Namely, apply (l1.2.1be) to a column of air translating along with the mean wind. Pick a coordinate system with the xaxis perpendicular to the shoreline, and assume uniformity in the y direction. The result is;convective TIBL, and there is a relatively sharp, welldefined top. The ML depth, Zj, grows by entrainment, is suppressed by subsidence, and otherwise evolves as previously discussed for ML growth (Lyons, 1975 Venkatram, 1977 Hsu, 1986 Arritt, 1987 Hanna, 1987 Mitsuta, et al., 1986). TIBLs can occur in winter as cold continental air advects over warmer water, and in summer as air over colder water advects over warmer land. Taylors hypothesis can be invoked to transform the prognostic equations into gradient equations. Namely, apply (l1.2.1be) to a column of air translating along with the mean wind. Pick a coordinate system with the xaxis perpendicular to the shoreline, and assume uniformity in the y direction. The result iswe s  we Zi;Z.  2  I eland  ese.1 x 1;1 Y ( 1  2 AR ) (14.2.2c);1 Y ( 1  2 AR ) (14.2.2c)where Y is the vertical potentialtemperature gradient immediately above the TIBL, and AR is an entrainment coefficient in the range of 0 to 0.22. Near shore, Hsu (1986) found for some case!. that Zj  1.91x1!2. As the column of air advects downwind and warms, the temperature difference between the air and the ground lessens. As a result, the heat flux at the ground decreases, the mixed layer warms less rapidly, and the rise rate of the mixed layer is reduced. At large distances downwind of the shoreline, the air column is assumed to reach a state of equilibrium with (i.e., at the same temperature as) the underlying surface, with no surface heat fluxes and little or no entrainment. Mean variables approach this equilibrium state exponentially with distance, while heat fluxes approach zero exponentially. An air mass is defined to be a boundary layer that has remained stationary over one location (the source region) long enough (days to weeks) to acquire some of the