SIMILARITY TIIEORY 395that in addition to the ML and SL, there are two new regions that can be identified. One layer is the free convection layer that fonns in strongly convective situations near the ground. It can be thought of as the region between the top of the SL and the bottom of the ML, where neither L nor Zj length scales are relevant. The other region is a near neutral upper layer that is similar to the residual layer except that it is still turbulent and still feeling the effects of the surface. These conditions might happen on a windy day with clear skies over land, where both buoyant and mechanical generation of turbulence are present. They might also exist in stratocumulustopped mixed layers. For stable conditions, Fig 9.16 shows a region in the upper right portion of the graph that corresponds to strongly stable air that is in the top of the SBL. Turbulence in this region is likely to be intermittent, because of the strong stability suppressing turbulence. In the middle of the SBL is a region that might be continuously turbulent, but which is independent of height above ground and of surface fluxes. In this zless region, only the magnitudes of the local fluxes are important. Below this region local scaling continues to be important for more neutral stability, but now the turbulence senses the bottom boundary and is dependent on z. Finally, adjacent to the ground is the usual surface layer, where surface fluxes and z are important. Note that the near neutral upper layer defined in this graph is within the SBL, and is not the residual layer that lies above the SBL.;that in addition to the ML and SL, there are two new regions that can be identified. One layer is the free convection layer that fonns in strongly convective situations near the ground. It can be thought of as the region between the top of the SL and the bottom of the ML, where neither L nor Zj length scales are relevant. The other region is a near neutral upper layer that is similar to the residual layer except that it is still turbulent and still feeling the effects of the surface. These conditions might happen on a windy day with clear skies over land, where both buoyant and mechanical generation of turbulence are present. They might also exist in stratocumulustopped mixed layers. For stable conditions, Fig 9.16 shows a region in the upper right portion of the graph that corresponds to strongly stable air that is in the top of the SBL. Turbulence in this region is likely to be intermittent, because of the strong stability suppressing turbulence. In the middle of the SBL is a region that might be continuously turbulent, but which is independent of height above ground and of surface fluxes. In this zless region, only the magnitudes of the local fluxes are important. Below this region local scaling continues to be important for more neutral stability, but now the turbulence senses the bottom boundary and is dependent on z. Finally, adjacent to the ground is the usual surface layer, where surface fluxes and z are important. Note that the near neutral upper layer defined in this graph is within the SBL, and is not the residual layer that lies above the SBL.z II 0.5 ..;9.11 ReferenceshL As figure 5.27 for the stable boundary layer (after Holtslag and;Niel.LwSdt, 1  where LL is a local Obukhov length given by evt  (k g wev).;American Geophysical Union, 1969 Spectra of Meteorological Variables. Radio Science, 4, No. 12, 10991397. Andre, I.C. , and C. Blondin, 1986 On the effective roughness length for use in numerical 3D models. Bound.Layer Meteor., 35,231245. Arya, S.P.S., 1981 Parameterizing the height of the stable atmospheric boundary layer. J. Appl. Meteor., 20, 11921202.