Variables such as potential temperature and watervapor mixing ratio are not conserved in a cloud, because of latent heat releaseabsorption and condensation evaporation. We would rather use variables that are conserved under adiabatic processes regardless of the state of saturation of the air parcel, because then we can use those variables to study how diabatic processes and external forcings affect the evolution of the cloudy boundary layer. The following variables are conserved for both dry and moist adiabatic processes with no precipitation, and change in proportion to the relative amounts of air undergoing isobaric mixing equivalent potential temperature, ge liquidwater potential temperature, 9L moist static energy, se liquid water static energy, sL total water mixing ratio, rT saturation point pressure, Psp saturation point temperature, T sp Any two of these conserved variables, together with the actual pressure or height of the air parcel, can be use to completely define the thermodynamic state and water content of the air (Betts and Albrecht, 1987). The most popular sets are (p, ee rT), (P,;Variables such as potential temperature and watervapor mixing ratio are not conserved in a cloud, because of latent heat releaseabsorption and condensation evaporation. We would rather use variables that are conserved under adiabatic processes regardless of the state of saturation of the air parcel, because then we can use those variables to study how diabatic processes and external forcings affect the evolution of the cloudy boundary layer. The following variables are conserved for both dry and moist adiabatic processes with no precipitation, and change in proportion to the relative amounts of air undergoing isobaric mixing equivalent potential temperature, ge liquidwater potential temperature, 9L moist static energy, se liquid water static energy, sL total water mixing ratio, rT saturation point pressure, Psp saturation point temperature, T sp Any two of these conserved variables, together with the actual pressure or height of the air parcel, can be use to completely define the thermodynamic state and water content of the air (Betts and Albrecht, 1987). The most popular sets are (p, ee rT), (P,e L, rT), (P, se rT), (P, sL rT) or (P, Psp Tsp). Frequently, z is used in place of Pin the above sets. Using anyone set, we could calculate all of the variables listed in Table 131 (see Example 13.1.6). By plotting one conserved variable against the other, we can create a conserved variable diagram that is useful for diagnostic studies of cloud and boundary layer processes (Hanson, 1984 Betts, 1985 Betts and Albrecht, 1987). Fig 13.1 shows a;0 0 c () .. 0 R.d.tI. Cooling;Conserved quantity 5 E thermodynamic diagram rT (Oe  r T ) showing how precipitation, radiation. (g I kg) G MIxing ! and mixing affects the LIn. o. thermodynamic state 01 10 A the air parcels labeled A Mixing through G. (Alter Betts. 1987). F