A sample secondorder closure model forecast is given in Fig 6.7, based on the moist convective boundary layer simulations of Sun and Ogura (1980). In addition to the;A sample secondorder closure model forecast is given in Fig 6.7, based on the moist convective boundary layer simulations of Sun and Ogura (1980). In addition to theequations listed above, they included prognostic equations for mixing ratio, r, moisture;variance r,2, moisture flux w r, and temperaturemoisture covariance, re . Using thefull secondorder set of equations, they could produce forecasts of mean variables (Fig 6.7a), as can be produced (with poorer accuracy) by firstorder closure. They could forecast variances (Fig 6.7b), as can be produced (with poorer accuracy) by oneanda halforder closure. Most importantly, they can also produce forecasts of fluxes (Fig 6.7c) and other covariances (Fig 6.7d) that the lowerorder schemes can not forecast.;It is beyond the scope of this book to go into the details of thirdorder closure. In general, the prognostic equations for the triplecorrelation terms are retained, while parameterizations are devised for the fourthorder correlations, for the pressure correlations, and for viscous dissipation. Some of the parameterizations presented in the literature (Andre, et aI, 1978 Wyngaard, 1982 Moeng and Randall, 1984 Bougeault, 1981a, 1981b, 1985 Wichmann and Schaller, 1985 Andre and Lacarrere, 1985 Briere, 1987) assume that the fourthorder moments have a quasiGaussian probability distribution, and can be approximated as a function of secondmoment terms. Any unrealistic values for some of the third moments are truncated or clipped to remain within physically realistic ranges, and various eddy damping schemes are used to prevent negative variances. It is generally assumed that equations for lowerorder variables (such as mean wind or fluxes) become more accurate as the closure approximations are pushed to higher orders. In other words, parameterizations for the fourthorder terms might be very crude, but there are enough remaining physics (un parameterized terms) in the equations for the third moments that these third moments are less crude. The second moment equations bring in more physics, making them even more precise  and so on down to the equations for the mean wind and temperature, etc. Based on the successful simulations published in the literature, this philosophy indeed seems to work. Higherorder moments are extremely difficult to measure in the real atmosphere. Measurements of fluxes (second moments) typically have a large amount of scatter. Eddy correlation estimates of third moments are even worse, with noise or error levels larger than the signal level. Accurate fourthorder moment measurements are virtually nonexistent. This means that we have very little knowledge of how these third and fourth