The turbulent flux is the result of a turbulent process. Without the process of eddies moving and mixing various air parcels, there would be no turbulent flux regardless of the state of the air. Transport spectra are based on fluxes, while state spectra (FFrs) are based on variances. To see how transport spectra (TS) are related to the transilient turbulence theory, start with the definition for kinematic flux given by (6.8.4b). Instead of summing over the contributions from ALL pairs of grid points within the domain of turbulence, as specified in (6.8.4a), we can selectively sum over only those pairs of points having a specified separation distance (Le., wavelength). If we let mz equal the wavelength of interest, then the portion of flux associated with wavelengthindex m that contributes to the total flux at heightindex k (i.e., at height z  k z) is;(8.1O.1a)where Ojj is the usual Kronecker delta, z is the vertical grid increment, t is the timestep increment and m is an integer between I and N. The total flux at location k is given by the sum of transport spectra over all wavelengths;Nw  (k) L TS(k,m) (8.10.1b) ml;It is always a good check to use (8.10.1b) confirm that the sum of the transportspectral components does indeed equal the total flux. A casestudy example of a transport spectrum is shown in Fig 8.13 for the kinematic heat flux at two different heights within the turbulent boundary layer near the Cabauw tower in the Netherlands at 1500 UTC, 30 May 1978 (Stull and Driedonks, 1987). A 3 km column of air near the tower is modeled using 30 grid boxes, each 100 m thick. The mixed layer within this column at 1500 UTC was about 2100 m thick. At a height of z  100 m (i.e., at k  1) we find that the smallest resolved wavelengths contribute most the the heat flux for this case, while the wavelengths of the range 1000 m to 2000 m make a smaller, but yet significant, contribution. At a height of 500 m above ground the smallest wavelengths contribute virtually nothing to the total flux, while wavelengths in the 500 m to 1700 m range dominate. At both of these heights, it is interesting to see that the largest wavelength within the turbulent domain has a negative contribution to the total heat flux. This is associated with the entrainment of warm air downward by the thermalscale eddies.