Thennals are trapped within the mixed layer, which means that moisture and pollutants transported from the surface by thermals are also trapped. The penetrative convection process and overshooting of thermals causes entrainment of large (horizontal and vertical thicknesses on the order of Zj) blobs or curtains of free atmosphere air down into the mixed layer between thermals, resulting in growth of the mixed layer thickness. Although portions of some of these entrained blobs have been observed to occasionally move down to the surface layer, most of the entrained air is mixed with surrounding ML air before reaching the surface. Using moisture as an indicator of source region of air, Crum and Stull (1987) found that undiluted surface layer air frequently reaches the top of the ML, presumedly in undiluted cores of thermals, while entrained FA air did not reach below 0.5 zi for the cases studied (Fig. 11.21).;0.5zZt .. 0.95  .221  . 1 C 0 L  ! 1ldlUll!l!I!WIII!IIIUI!I!I!uu.!IIII!lJlJIllIIIUIIIIIIIWllnl!lIUI!!I!lI!jUI11I...II . 3579;I z IZt  0.58a .101L..    wwII    . . lIIlIlullll. .  3 5 7 9;Fig. 11.21 Range of specific humidity measured by aircraft at various heights within the convective mixed layer during BLX83. (After Crum and Stull, 1987).;On a smaller scale, small eddies cause mixing into the top and sides of the thermal. Mixing into the top of individual thermals has been related to enhanced wind shear across the overshooting tops, resulting in the generation of turbulence via the KelvinHelmholtz process (Rayment and Readings, 1974). In spite of this process, little if any thermal air is mixed out of the thermal and deposited into the free atmosphere. Lateral entrainment, or intromission, appears to be a process where blobs of environmental air from outside the thermal are mixed horizontally into the thermal (Crum, et aI., 1987). In the center of the thermal is a relatively undiluted core, carrying surface layer air up to the top of the boundary layer. Around this core is a thick contorted layer of