9) Compute the individual FFTs for the two data sets from problem 5, using canned statistical packages. Compare the simple spectrum for T with that for w. 10) Using the FFT temperature output from problem 9, set the 5 frequencies nearest the Nyquist frequency to zero, on both sides of the Nyquist frequency. Do this to the Fourier transform itself, not to the spectrum. Then use this modified phase space data to compute an inverse transform. Plot the resulting physical space time series, along with the original temperature time series from problem 5. What you have just done was an ideal lowpass filter. 11) Use the FFT output from problem 9 to manually compute (or use a spreadsheet) the cross spectral information cospectrum, quadrature spectrum, coherence, amplitude, and phase spectra. If you have a canned statistical package that also computes these values, compare the results. 12) Compute a new time series of wT values from the data in problem 5. Calculate the covariance for this series, and then do an FFT on the series. Compare the resulting simple spectrum from this FFT output with the cross spectral results from problem 11. 13) Write a program to compute the periodogram. Use it to find the spectrum (r2 values vs. n) for the data in problem 1, for n values ranging from 0.1 to 10, with increments of 6n  0.2. Compare the r2 values for integer n with the spectral output from problem 6 normalized by the total variance. 14) If you have an odd number of data points in a time series vs. an even number, how does that affect the Nyquist frequency? 15) When the spectral form of the TKE equation (8.6.2) is integrated over wavenumber from 0 to 00, the result is close to the TKE equation (5.1 b). (a) Discuss the differences. (b) Also, if (8.6.2) is integrated over wavenumbers from 0 to !CIS, where !CIS is in the middle of the inertial subrange, then describe the physical relationships and magnitudes of the resulting integrated terms. 16) Write a computer program to generate a time series consisting of 10 oscillations of a perfect sine wave within a Iminute period. Sample this series 18 evenlyspaced times during that same period. Plot this sampled time series, and discuss the shape in relation to the Nyquist frequency and aliasing. 17) Prove mathematically that the Fourier transform results are also the bestfit sine and cosine waves in the leastsquares sense. 18) Use the Profile B data and the transilient matrix from example 6.8.5 to calculate the the transport and process spectra for all wavelengths (m  1 to 5) for heights z  100, 200, and 300 m, and plot your results on separate graphs. 9) Spectrally decompose equation (3.S.3c). Comment on the wavenumber dependence of advection terms (both turbulent and mean).