12) If an air parcel rises through the mixed layer and penetrates into the entrainment zone with an initial venical velocity at the base of the inversion of 5 mls and initialtemperature equal to the ML temperature of e  300 K. how far will the parcel overshoot. if a) the temperature step at the top of the ML is 3 K and the lapse rate in the FA is adiabatic? b) there is no temperature step at the Ml top. but there is a constant lapse rate of;temperature equal to the ML temperature of e  300 K. how far will the parcel overshoot. if a) the temperature step at the top of the ML is 3 K and the lapse rate in the FA is adiabatic? b) there is no temperature step at the Ml top. but there is a constant lapse rate ofaeOz  5 Klkm? 13) How do surface layer plumes relate to updraft cunains and cor. vergence lines? 14) Suppose that.the FA is filled with high concentrations of a tracer called BSP (blue sky;aeOz  5 Klkm? 13) How do surface layer plumes relate to updraft cunains and cor. vergence lines? 14) Suppose that.the FA is filled with high concentrations of a tracer called BSP (blue skypigment). This tracer is entrained into the top of the ML with flux w cZj   0.1 g;pigment). This tracer is entrained into the top of the ML with flux w cZj   0.1 gmls. This tracer is lost from the bottom of the ML by being absorbed into lakes;(causing blue lakes) at the same rate w cs  0.1 g mls. Use topdown bottomup;(causing blue lakes) at the same rate w cs  0.1 g mls. Use topdown bottomupmethods to calculate and plot the shape of the mean concentration. C. of BSP as a function of height. zlZj. in the ML. What is the mean gradient across the ML? Do the calculations for a) w.  2 mls. b) w.  0.2 mls. 15) How would smoke disperse from a 200 m high smoke stack if the ML were 800 m thick. and if the venical velocity frequency distribution were positively skewed (instead of the negatively skewed distribution that is observed in nature)? 16) What are the similarities and differences between the entrainment zone and the intromission zone? 17) For a 1 km thick boundary layer with a 3 K potential temperature difference across it. what is the value of a) the Rayleigh number for air? b) the turbulent Rayleigh number for air (and state assumptions for K)? 18) Find and plot M vs. time for a 3 h period. Assume for simplicity that the average. ML;methods to calculate and plot the shape of the mean concentration. C. of BSP as a function of height. zlZj. in the ML. What is the mean gradient across the ML? Do the calculations for a) w.  2 mls. b) w.  0.2 mls. 15) How would smoke disperse from a 200 m high smoke stack if the ML were 800 m thick. and if the venical velocity frequency distribution were positively skewed (instead of the negatively skewed distribution that is observed in nature)? 16) What are the similarities and differences between the entrainment zone and the intromission zone? 17) For a 1 km thick boundary layer with a 3 K potential temperature difference across it. what is the value of a) the Rayleigh number for air? b) the turbulent Rayleigh number for air (and state assumptions for K)? 18) Find and plot M vs. time for a 3 h period. Assume for simplicity that the average. MLtop. Zi, occurs in the middle of the entrainment zone. Suppose Zj  at12. and Lle ;top. Zi, occurs in the middle of the entrainment zone. Suppose Zj  at12. and Lle b(tcr12  where a  8.333 m SI2. b  180 K sl2  and c  1 h. Assume the air;b(tcr12  where a  8.333 m SI2. b  180 K sl2  and c  1 h. Assume the airis dry, and the surface flux is constant at w e  0.2 K mls. and ge  0.03333 m;is dry, and the surface flux is constant at w e  0.2 K mls. and ge  0.03333 ms2 K1