In Fig 9.5, u. is proportional to the slope of the line, in statically neutral conditions. In fact, once the roughness length and displacement distance have been detennined, it is easy to find the u. from;In Fig 9.5, u. is proportional to the slope of the line, in statically neutral conditions. In fact, once the roughness length and displacement distance have been detennined, it is easy to find the u. fromu.  kM In (zlz.,) (9.7.4);u.  kM In (zlz.,) (9.7.4)where M is the wind speed at height z. The magnitude of the surface stress in kinematic;where M is the wind speed at height z. The magnitude of the surface stress in kinematicform is then u.;9.7.5 Wind Profile in Nonneutral Conditions;Expressions such as (9.7.lb) or (9.7.ld) for statically neutral flow relate the;Expressions such as (9.7.lb) or (9.7.ld) for statically neutral flow relate themomentum flux, as described by u.2, to the vertical profile of Vvelocity. Hence, those expressions can be called fluxprofile relationships. These relationships can be extended to include nonneutral (diabalic) surface layers.;BusingerDyer Relationships. In nonneutral conditions, we might expect that the buoyancy parameter and the surface heat flux are additional relevant variables. When these are used with the variables from Section 9.7.1, Buckingham Pi analysis gives us;BusingerDyer Relationships. In nonneutral conditions, we might expect that the buoyancy parameter and the surface heat flux are additional relevant variables. When these are used with the variables from Section 9.7.1, Buckingham Pi analysis gives usthree dimensionless groups (neglecting the displacement distance for now) Mlu., zlZa, and zL, where L is the Obukhov length. Alternatively, if we consider the shear instead of the speed, we get two dimensionless groups cIIM and zL. Based on field experiment data, Businger, et a!., (1971) and Dyer (1974) independently estimated the functional form to be;(4.7 z) 1  z for I 0 (stable) (9.7.5a);(4.7 z) 1  z for I 0 (stable) (9.7.5a)qM for!  0 L (neutral) (9.7.5b)  (15Z)r 4 z 1 L for 10 (unstable) (9.7.5c);These are plotted in Fig 9.9a, where Businger, et a!., have suggested that k  0.35 for their data set. Similar expressions have been estimated for the heat flux vs. the virtual potential temperature proflle