Case Study Examples. Fig 4.7 shows that humidity variance is small near the ground. because thennals have nearly the same humidity as their environment. At the top of the ML. however. drier air from aloft is being entrained down between the moist thennals. creating large humidity variances. Part of this variance might be associated with the excitation of gravitylbuoyancy waves by the penetrative convection. Fig 4.8 shows production tenns balancing loss tenns in the budget. assuming a steady state situation where storage and mean advection are neglected. Notice that the transport tenns (found as a residual) are positive in the bottom half of the ML. but are negative in the top half. The integrated effects of these tenns are zero. Such is the case for most transport tenns  they merely move moisture variance from one part of the ML (where there is excess production) to another part (where there is excess dissipation). leaving zero net effect when averaged over the whole ML.;Budget Equations. As was done with the moisture equation. start with (4.1.3), multiply by 2S. use the product rule of calculus. Reynolds average, put into flux form, neglect molecular diffusion but retain the molecular dissipation. and rearrange to yield;Budget Equations. As was done with the moisture equation. start with (4.1.3), multiply by 2S. use the product rule of calculus. Reynolds average, put into flux form, neglect molecular diffusion but retain the molecular dissipation. and rearrange to yieldas,2 as,2  2Su.   a(u.s,2) (L)  U J  29  PCp s aj at j ax. J ax. ax. J J J (4.3.3) II IV V VII VIII;The tenns above have physical representations analogous to those in (4.3.2). Term VIII is the radiation destruction tenn (sometimes given the symbol R) It is difficult to;Fig. 4.9 Modeled vertical profiles of dimensionless virtual potential temperature variance for Day 33, Wangara. Abscissa changes from linear to logarithmic at 1 O. Based on data from Deardorff (1974);Andr, et al.,(1978), Lenschow, et al. (1980), and Smedman and HOgstrOm (1983).;Andr, et al.,(1978), Lenschow, et al. (1980), and Smedman and HOgstrOm (1983).l l,