442 BOUNDARY LAYER lvffiTEOROLOGYz z z z Free Atmosphere ....... .. ... ...... .. .. ..... .. ... ...... t .... .. . Entrainment Zone    r  .;! L....! L ...... Surface layer UW;Fig. 11 .1 Mean characteristics of layers within the convective boundary layer. (After Driedonks and Tennekes. 1984).;The surface layer is characterized by a superadiabatic lapse rate, moisture decrease with height, and strong wind shear (see Fig 11.1) that are all well described by Monin Obukhov similarity theory. The temperature and moisture at any height depend strongly on the recent history of the surface layer, and must be predicted using prognostic equations (Chapter 3) together with the initial and boundary conditions. Nevertheless, the shape (e.g., vertical gradients) of these profiles is quasisteady, allowing diagnostic description using similarity theory (Chapter 9). The wind profile is not as dependent on the time history, because the wind speed is always zero at the surface, but it can be altered by a nonuniform bottom boundary (see Chapter 14). As a result, both the wind gradient and the mean wind profile itself can usually be described diagnostically by the log wind profile (Chapter 9). The virtual potential temperature decreases very rapidly across the microlayer, from the relatively hot surface skin temperature to the warm temperatures at the bottom of the surface layer. In the remainder of the surface layer, the virtual potential temperature gradient decreases smoothly with height, becoming nearly zero at the top of the surface layer. The strong gradients in the microlayer support molecular conduction, as previously discussed. while the gradients in the remainder of the surface layer support downgradient (smalleddy) turbulent diffusion. The gradient diffusion processes decrease in importance with height within the surface layer as largeeddy nonlocal transport and mixing take over. Evaporationtranspiration from the surface occurs if the ground is moist andor vegetated. The moisture gradient decreases V llh height in a manner similar to the temperature gradient, becoming relatively small at the top of the swiace layer.