As will be discussed in the next chapter, both the abscissa and ordinate are often made dimensionless by normalizing with respect to scaling variables (see Fig 8.9g). The scaling variables used in this example are listed in Table 81.;Instead of discussing spectral behavior theoretically, this section demonstrates spectral behavior for a single variable through a series of examples with synthetic data. In each of the folJowing cases, an artificial time series of 20 data points is plotted, along with the spectrum computed with an FFT program. The spectrum shows E(n) normalized by the total biased variance, and shows the fraction of the total variance explained by each frequency. The Nyquist frequency is n1O for all cases.;Case A (Fig 8.10a) Simple waves of one frequency. All of these examples show a wave having four cycles per time period. The first four examples in this case show that the spectrum is independent of the phase of the original time series. A single simple wave in physical space produces a single spike in the spectrum at n4 that explains all the variance. The fifth example shows that if the spectrum is normalized by the total variance, we still have a single spike that explains 100 of the variance. If the spectrum had not been normalized, the spike for this flfth case would have beenttwice as large as the spikes for the other four cases, because the time series for the fifth case consisted of a wave with twice the amplitude.;Case B (Fig 8.10b) Simple waves of different frequencies. The first example shows a time series filled by one wave, resulting in a spectrum with a spike at n  1. The next three examples show waves with 4, 8, and 10 cycles per period in the time series, resulting in spectra with frequency spikes at n  4, 8, and 10 respectively. The fifth example shows a time series with a wave having 12 cycles per period, but the aliasing problem causes this signal to be folded back to n  8, where it appears as a spike on the spectrum.;Case C (Fig 8.10c) Frequencies between resolvable frequencies. The FFT consists of waves of the fundamental frequency (n  1) and only the exact harmonics (n  2, 3, 4, ... ). But what happens if the real signal has a frequency of n  4.2 or 4.5? These examples show that a wave of n  4.5 appears as two large spikes at n  4 and n  5. The closer the signal is to an exact harmonic, the greater the spectral energy at that harmonic and the smaller the energy at the next nearest neighbor. Notice that for a signal with n  4.5, the spectrum not only has the two large spikes described above, but there is also a leakage of some small amount of spectral energy to aU the other frequencies. We might expect that a real turbulence signal consisting of a multitude of frequencies, many of which are not exact harmonics of the fundamental frequency, will result in a spectrum with a lot of leakage, making it difficult to separate the true signals from the underlying noise.