LX location parameter for lognormal Q distribution L transilient mixing distance q specific humidity (of water vapor) L length scale b specific humidity at the ground surface LCL lifting condensation level It. liquid water specific humidity LES large eddy simulation local humidity scale LFC level of free convection LU lowlevel jet i local free.convection humidity scale LOC limit of convection q. surface specific humidity of air M t. moisture difference between air at the surface and aloft m mass lr total water specific humidity msl (above) mean sea level  moisture scale in the upper boundary layer M magnitude of wind (wind speed) mass flux t. generic turbulent moisture sca1e fundamental mass dimension qML humidity scale for mixed layer, based on w. M. wind speed at the surface  Mz wind speed at the top of the boundary layer q SL humidity scale for surface layer based on u  MCC mesoscale cellular convection  METROMEX Metropolitan Meteorology Q quadrature spectrum Experiment QA effective bulk heat flux into the SBL MKE kinetic energy associated with mean wind ML mixed layer associated with advection MP mechanical production of TK.E OIl latent heat flux N Qg molecular heat flux within the ground 00 molecular heat flux within the ground at the;LX location parameter for lognormal Q distribution L transilient mixing distance q specific humidity (of water vapor) L length scale b specific humidity at the ground surface LCL lifting condensation level It. liquid water specific humidity LES large eddy simulation local humidity scale LFC level of free convection LU lowlevel jet i local free.convection humidity scale LOC limit of convection q. surface specific humidity of air M t. moisture difference between air at the surface and aloft m mass lr total water specific humidity msl (above) mean sea level  moisture scale in the upper boundary layer M magnitude of wind (wind speed) mass flux t. generic turbulent moisture sca1e fundamental mass dimension qML humidity scale for mixed layer, based on w. M. wind speed at the surface  Mz wind speed at the top of the boundary layer q SL humidity scale for surface layer based on u  MCC mesoscale cellular convection  METROMEX Metropolitan Meteorology Q quadrature spectrum Experiment QA effective bulk heat flux into the SBL MKE kinetic energy associated with mean wind ML mixed layer associated with advection MP mechanical production of TK.E OIl latent heat flux N Qg molecular heat flux within the ground 00 molecular heat flux within the ground at then frequency (cycles per time period P) guface;Dref index of refraction QR bulle heat flux n frequency (cycles per second) Qr total heat flux acting on the SBL N number count Qw effective bulk heat flux into the SBL Nd cloud droplet number density Q. net radiation NBV BruntVllislllll frequency Q. component of net radiation in the j direction ) NBL noctumal boundary layer 6QS storage of internal energy p R p pressure mixing ratio Po reference pressure correlation coefficient IXIf probability density function r spatial separation P pressure ra water vapor resistance through air Po reference pressure rAB linear correlation coefficient between A. B PSP saturation point pressure P time period rL liquid water mixing ratio