MIXED LAYER 465varying thickness in which some of the entrained environmental air and thennal air have mixed. Thus, there are no well defmed edges to the typical thennal (Fig 11.22).;11.22 Horizontal cross section through a thermal. (After Crum et aI., 1987).;This amorphous boundary between the updraft and downdraft region results in a variety of interpretations of convective structures as visualized using both insitu and remote sensors. Conditional sampling is the technique of sorting data into thennal or nonthennal categories according to some selection criteria, called an indicator function. The three most used indicators of thennals based on direct measurements are vertical velocity, humidity, andlor turbulence. Usually, some minimum threshold amplitude of the indicator function must be met to detennine the category of a data value. Within thennals, the fluctuations of these variables are sometimes greater than their respective conditionally sampled means. Thus, some sampling strategies also require that the indicator variable maintain a certain value over specified time durations (corresponding to a minimum size of the structure). Using both amplitude and duration, many data points can be soned into the updraft (thermal) or downdraft categories. Those remaining data points in the time series that satisfy neither the criteria for thennal updraft nor betweenthennal downdraft are sometimes grouped into a third category called environment. Conditional sampling of aircraft data suggests that welldefined updrafts cover about 15 to 43 of the horizontal area, while welldefined downdrafts cover about 20 to 55 (Lenschow and Stephens, 1980, 1982 Greenhut and Khalsa, 1982, 1987 and Khalsa and Greenhut, 1985, 1987 Crum, et aI., 1987 Young, 1988ac). The remaining percentage are weaker circulations of mixed environmental air. Godowitch (1986) observed 36 to 40 updrafts and 49 to 52 downdrafts over both rural and urban sites, but thennals at the urban sites had greater vertical velocities. Thennal diameters, as well as cumulus diameters, occurwith a frequency that is approximately lognonnally distributed. On some field experiments, a range !of one to three thennal centers are encountered per horizontal flight distance of Zi This suggests that