16 BOUNDARY LAYER METEOROLOGYz z Free atmosphere  .  . Former entrainment zone;Stable Boundary layer .... 9 y .M;Fig. 1.11 Mean virtual potential temperature, 6v , and wind speed, M ,profiles for an idealized stable boundary layer in a highpressure region.that, the wind speed is smaller and closer to its geostrophic value. The strong shears below the jet are accompanied by a rapid change in wind direction, where the lower level winds are directed across the isobars towards low pressure. Touching the ground, however, is a thin (order of a few meters) layer of katabatic or drainage winds. These winds are caused by the colder air, adjacent to the ground, flowing downhill under the influence of gravity. Wind speeds of 1 mls at a height of I m are possible. This cold air collects in the valleys and depressions and stagnates there. Unfortunately, many weather stations are located in or near Valleys, where the observed surface Winds bear little relationship to the synopticscale forcings at night. Wave motions are a frequent occurrence in the SBL. The strongly stable NBL not only suppons gravity waves, but it can trap many of the higherfrequency waves near the ground. Vertical wave displacements of 100 m have been observed, although the associated wind and temperature oscillations are relatively small and difficult to observe without sensitive instruments. SBLs can also form during the day, as long as the underlying surface is colder than the air. These situations often occur during warmair advection over a colder surface, such as after a warm frontal passage or near shorelines.;Given the virtual potential temperature profiles from the previous subsections, it is useful to integrate these profiles into our concept of how the boundary layer evolves. If rawinsonde soundings were made at the times indicated by flags S I through S6 in Fig 1.7, then Fig 1.12 shows the resulting virtual potential temperature proflle evolution. We see from these soundings that knowledge of the vinual potential temperature prome is usually sufficient to identify the parts of the boundary layer. The structure of the BL is clearly evident.