Local Free Convection Similarity. In statically unstable surface layers, buoyancy is the driving force behind the turbulence. However, turbulence in the surface layer might feel the influence of the ground more than the influence of the capping inversion (Wyngaard, et al., 1971 Tennekes, 1973 Wyngaard, 1973 Caughey and Palmer, 1979 Sorbjan, 1986). As a result, z is not a relevant parameter, but z is. The list of relevant scales becomes z Order (0 to 50 m) wu Order (0 to 0.5 mls) 9Lf Order (0 to 2.0 0c) Iu Order (0 to 5 gwate.!kgair) This similarity approach is useful for surface layers in conditions of calm mean winds. In that case the Obukhov length is zero, and is not an appropriate measure of the amount of turbulence being generated. Thus, MoninObukhov similarity will not work.;Rossbynumber Similarity. In some situations such as largescale modeling, it is desirable to relate surface fluxes to external forcings. In this regard, it is necessary to match the wind and temperature profiles higher in the boundary layer with those in the surface layer (Tennekes, 1973 Yamada, 1976). As a result, relevant scales include both surface scales ( Zo, L, u., 9. SL, q. SL) and scales appropriate to the upper boundary layer;(h2, G2, 92, Q2) In early work (see review by Tennekes, 1982), it was suggested that the h2 scale be described by Gfe. When this outer scale is combined with the inner scale, zo the result is the surface Rossby number, G(fezo). Unfortunately, this approach was not completely successful, resulting in a search for better outer scales. Although still not perfect, the following outer scales are now more widely accepted (Zj , G, 69., 6q.). Details of this approach are reviewed in Section 9.8.;Many of the figures in Chapters 4 and 5 are already presented in similarity form using the above scales, with one dimensionless group plotted as a function of other dimensionless groups. These curves represent graphical representations of similarity relationships, and can be used directly to estimate the values of variables at any height, within the limitations of the data (e.g., free convection within the mixed layer). Similarity graphs are presented for unstable, neutral and stable boundary layers in those chapters. Analytical equations have been suggested in the literature for some of the graphical similarity results. In some of these cases, curves are fit to only a subdomain of the turbulence, or apply under only certain conditions. Many of the analytical similarity relationships that have proved successful are summarized in Sections 9.4 through 9.6. We will start in Section 9.4 by listing similarity relationships for stable (nocturnal) boundary layers, and then proceed to the neutral and unstable (convective) boundary layers in Sections 9.5 and 9.6, respectively. Subsections for mean variables, fluxes,