The 1 power law dependence is still debated in the literature, with other suggestions ranging from 0 to 2. In the evening over land, when ML turbulence decays, we are left with the statically stable capping inversion in place of the EZ. In fact, the EZ is often called the capping inversion during the day because it acts as a lid to convection. In the absence of turbulence, there is little change to the capping inversion at night, except by subsidence and advection. We can also model the distribution of FA air within the EZ. As mentioned before, the amount of FA air decreases with distance down from the top of the EZ. Also present in the EZ are some thennal cores that have transported up rather undiluted surface layer (SL) air. Smaller eddies mixing these two extremes creates a third cateory of air that we will call mixture air. The relative fractions of these three air categories is plotted in Fig 11.30 based on the tank measurements of Deardorff, et al. (1980) and the aircraft field observations of Crum, et al. (1987). Sometimes mixture air and SL air are grouped together and called mixed layer air (Deardorff, et al., 1980). Wilde, et al. (1985) found that the distribution of ML air with height is fairlywell described by the integral of a truncated doubleexponential function, with the peak centered at zi;I . FrH atmosphere 1.2 81r (u ndil uted) Fig. 11.30 Fractions of 10 surface layer, mixture and 08 freeatmosphere  air as a function Z , of depth in the 0.6;ML. (After o. Deardorff, el aI., 1.980 Crum and Stull,1987). 02;Overshooting and IntermiUancy. The entrainment zone essentially consists of turbulent thennals imbedded within nonturbulent FA air. An aircraft flying a horizontal flight leg within the entrainment zone will experience intermittent periods of turbulence. A variety of smaller scales of motion are present in the entrainment zone in addition to the large overshooting thennals (Crum and Stull, 1987). In spite of this smallerscale turbulence, there is very little (almost negligible) ML air dispersed out of the thennals into the FA.