678 CHAPTER 17 OFFSHORE WIND ENERGY UTILISATIONwind parks will represent a real alternative to some of the presentday conventional large power stations. This argument should be taken into consideration when weighing the ecological and economic arguments.;There have been offshore structures in large numbers for more than 50 years, particu larly platforms for extracting oil and natural gas. In extreme cases, oil drilling platforms are standing in water depths of several hundred meters. The technical problems associ ated with the transportation, erection and operation of such structures are well known, as is a multiplicity of suitable technical solutions. Nevertheless, the offshore siting of wind turbines raises new questions, especially because the economic boundaries are much tighter than, for example, in the case of the drilling platforms mentioned which represent investments of billions and are also operated by a large operating team. Al though the techniques that can be used for erecting wind turbines offshore can be largely borrowed from the familiar offshore technology, the operation of large off shore wind farms without operating personnel represents a completely new, technically oriented challenge.;17.1.1 Technical Requirements for the Wind Turbines;The first prerequisite for utilising wind energy successfully offshore is that the wind turbines themselves are of a suitable design and have some specific equipment. The first wind turbines were designed for siting on land. A wind turbine located at sea is typically subjected to different external conditions that must be taken into consideration in the design. But also the requirements of the operation are different and much more ambitious.;The remote locations, the maritime environment in particular poor weather conditions can cause longer down times and greater losses of energy productions. Therefore a higher level of reliability and specific measures for accessibility are extremely impor tant factors. The emphasis on reliability and maintainability can influence the total tech nical concept as well as the design of the components, but in any case the requirements for the manufacturing and the quality assurance.;To make use of high wind speeds, the towers of wind turbines sited offshore do not need to be as high as those on inland sites. The wind speed profile has more of a bulge so that lower tower heights are sufficient for attaining the optimum economic value. The tower height is also determined by the oceanographic conditions. Factors to be taken