804 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSconsiderably cheaper when produced in larger numbers, whereas costs of other components can hardly be lowered. Rotor blades, for example, can be manufactured considerably more cheaply in series, whereas gears, bearings and other conventional machine components hardly become cheaper even if the wind turbine is produced in series, since these compo nents are taken from other series in any case.;Last but not least the manufacturing costs of a wind turbine are determined by thecost for the raw material. In particular this is true for steel. Simple steel structures have a share of 80  85  of the total weight of a wind turbine with steel tower. Steel prices showed a remarkable up and down during the last years. In 2008 prices increased by 60  70  and came down again to the original level in 2009. Nevertheless there is a gen eral tendency to increasing prices for all raw materials. In the cost model a steel price of about 1.2 to 1.3 USkg has been assumed. A simple calculation shows that a variation of the steel price up to 2 USkg as in 2008, adds at least 10  to the total component costs.;Other raw materials like copper also have a certain influence on the costs, naturallyon the electrical components. A special role plays the raw material for the permanent magnets. So far China has a kind of monopoly for this material. The prices vary during the last years and are a source of uncertainty for the customers.;As with other products, too, the cost structure of a wind turbine can be broken downwith respect to different aspects. For a commercial cost calculation, a breakdown into material, vendor parts, labour costs and additional items for overhead costs is important. However, this type of analysis says little about the technology. A breakdown according to components or subsystems is much more informative. This provides a direct insight into the technology from a technicaleconomic perspective. Above all, the starting points for further developments towards a more costeffective concept become visible.;The socalled component costs are based on a certain understanding which must betaken into consideration. The costs for the components supplied are provided by the purchase prices with a small addition for procurement (typically 5). The costs for the components made inhouse include all the cost components such as material and labour and the componentrelated general costs as if the component were being offered for sale. This is the only way a decision can be reached between the economic options of buying in and manufacturing inhouse. The manufacturers of wind turbines pursue highly varying policies in this regard. Many manufacturers try to purchase as many parts as possible from outside vendors. Thus, they benefit from price competition and the technical knowledge of the vendor industry. Other manufacturers prefer to bet on their own production. Above all, they want to push ahead the integrated development of the system with all its important components, thus nosing ahead of the competition. They put up with certain cost disadvantages caused by the nonspecialised company production of certain components.;Adding up the component costs is the first important step in the pricing of the system. These component costs cannot be decreased without a modification of the technical concept, of the production method or a change of suppliers. A commercial enterprise aiming at a longterm and stable market position, including not only the pro duction side but also a global product management, must include a number of other cost factors in its pricing calculations