Calculating the economics of an investment project is not realistic without including the conditions of financing. Even if the economical assessment deals primarily with the economic potential of the technology, the financial aspect has to be consid ered. Innovative and courageous financial engineering frequently provides the deci sive impulse for helping new ideas to achieve a breakthrough and this also applies to the success of wind energy.;The capital required for implementing a wind turbine project is firstly determined by the overall investment costs. However, the method by which the funds are raised, that is how the investment is financed, is not without influence on the recurring and non recurring costs. The financing method, in turn, is itself influenced by the legal form of the owner or operator (legal entity) of the wind energy project. If, for example, a corporate organisation, a project company, carries out the investment, other forms of financing are possible than in those cases where wind turbines are purchased and oper ated by private individuals.;Analysing the economics thus requires that the legal form of the owner, and the associated possibilities for financing, are taken into consideration. It is, therefore, impossible to make a completely abstract and generally valid statement about the economic viabil ity which will always remain subject to the individual situation to a certain degree.;Commonly, the investment will be largely financed by bank credits (borrowed capital), thus predetermining the interest and repayment service. If the investment is com pletely financed by equity in exceptional cases, an operator thinking in business terms will calculate a return for his investment, which will provide for a return of the equity within a given period and for a minimum interest rate. This calculatory service of the equity is of the same magnitude as for the borrowed capital so that there is no differ ence between equity and borrowed capital as far as obtaining a rough estimate of the economics involved is concerned.;Banks grant credits only with certain securities which must be provided by the borrower. Traditional bank financing is secured by socalled real securities, that is mortgages or the transfer of ownership of buildings and assets. An increasing number of banks has been venturing into socalled project financing (nonrecourse financing) where the loans are no longer secured with real securities. The borrower commits himself to allocate the revenue from his project predominantly to servicing his debt to the bank. The banks security thus rests exclusively on their faith in the longterm security of the income, i.e. the technical and organisational stability of the project and its economic viability 1.