168 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSESwhich determine the dimensions of the structure. This requires a complete overview of all external operating conditions and of possible malfunctions of the turbine. On the basis of this, the socalled load cases can be defined. However, the real loads to which the wind turbine is subjected can never be covered in their entire complexity which is why they can always be stipulated only in an approximated, idealized form as design loads. The load assumptions, i.e. the load cases with the loads form an important basis in the design process. The mathematical methods needed for calcu lating structural loads and material stresses include some of the most complex theo retical tools required for developing wind turbines. The models are basically not different from those used in other fields of technology. Nonetheless, the course of action to be taken in relation to the structural design of a wind turbine is governed by its own set of problems.;The starting point for the entire load spectrum of a wind turbine are the loads acting on the rotor. The loads on the rotor blades are passed on to the other components and to a great extent determine their loading. Compared to these loads, the loads originating directly from downstream components are less significant. Discussions of the loads acting on a wind turbine can, therefore, be concentrated on the rotor and deal with it as being representative of all parts.; An air flow which is steady, but spatially nonuniform over the rotorswept areacauses cyclic load changes on the rotating rotor. This includes, in particular, the uneven flow towards the rotor due to the increase in wind speed with height, a crossflow towards the rotor and interference due to flow around the tower.; The inertia forces due to the dead weight of the rotor blades also cause loadswhich are periodic and thus unsteady. Moreover, the gyroscopic forces produced when the rotor is yawed must also be included among those which increase or al ternate with each revolution of the rotor.;For an investigation of structural stresses, it is important to consider the effects of load variations with time. Fluctuating and alternating loads must be recognized, especially with respect to the fatigue life of the structure. Extreme loads in specific situations have to known to ensure the survival of the structure with respect to ulti mate stress.