The variation of the cPR curves as a function of the tipspeed ratio also shows the range within which the optimum tipspeed ratio for rotors with different numbers of blades has to fall. While the threebladed rotor performs optimally at a design tipspeed ratio of between 7 and 8, a twobladed rotor reaches its maximum cPR value at a tip speed ratio of approx. 10. The optimum tip speed ratio of a onebladed rotor is about 15. The optimum tipspeed ratio is slightly dependent on the choice of airfoil. However, essentially only the maximum values of the cPR curves are moved up or down by the airfoil characteristics, so that the correlations between number of blades, power coeffi cient and optimum tipspeed ratio are generally valid. Looking at the dependence of the power coefficient on the number of rotor blades, it is immediately apparent why rotors with a low number of blades, i.e. two or three, are the preferred solution for wind turbines. As a rule, the possible gain in power and en ergy yield of a few percent is not enough to justify the cost of an additional rotor blade. This statement would be entirely indisputable if it were not for several other criteria. The fewer blades there are the more and more unfavourable the dynamic behaviour of a wind rotor becomes. The difference between the aerodynamically symmetry three bladed rotor and a two or even singlebladed rotor is particularly marked (Chapt. 6.6.1). The high dynamic loads caused by an aerodynamically asymmetrical rotor re quire additional complexity in the other components of the wind turbine. Moreover, rotors with a high tipspeed ratio, i.e. two or singlebladed rotors, cause a noise emis sion which is unacceptable at most sites. The visual effect of a rotating two or even singlebladed rotor, too, is generally felt to be restless in comparison with the three bladed rotor. All this has led to the threebladed rotor having become completely estab lished today in commercial wind turbines. As the size of the wind turbines increases, however, and their field of application is extended (offshore wind farms), the two bladed rotor may quite easily become attractive again. The choice of the optimum num ber of rotor blades is, therefore, not only a question of aerodynamic power differences, but rather requires integrated consideration of the wind turbine and the conditions under which it is used as a total system.;5.5.2 Optimum Shape of the Rotor Blades;The mechanical power captured by the rotor from the wind is influenced by the geomet rical shape of the rotor blades. Determining the aerodynamically optimum blade shape, or the best possible approximation to it, is one of the tasks of the designer. Applying Betzs momentum theory and the strip theory, an aerodynamic optimum shape of the contour of the rotor blade can be calculated. The crucial criterion in this calculation is the demand that at each blade radius, the wind speed in the rotor plane be delayed to two thirds of its undisturbed value. This requirement can be met if the product of local lift coefficient and local chord length follows a hyperbolic course over the blade radius. The local lift coefficients must be derived from the polar curves of the selected airfoil and by considering the local angle of attack, i.e. the blade pitch angle and the blade twist angle. In other words, the aerodynamically optimum distribution of chord and twist of the rotor blades depends on the selection of a particular lift coefficient.