18.3 TRANSPORTATION TO THE SITE 741store for certain smaller parts subject to wear and spare parts and for operating fluids, is normally only provided for very large wind farms with more than 50 turbines.;As a result of the construction work carried out on the wind farm field, the installation site will become a large building site for a brief period (Fig. 18.14). After the con struction work has finished and the ground cover has returned. However, the installation site will rapidly regain its natural appearance. The agricultural use of the land around the wind turbines will be restricted only to a small extend (Fig. 18.15). The space for the tower and the surface of the concrete foundation is only in the order of some ten square meters. Some attention has to be paid on the accessibility during the operation. For this reason, depending on the size of the installation, one or several access roads, which have been built during the construction, have to be kept.;Transporting smaller turbines is more an economic problem than a technical one. To keep transportation costs low, the maximum component sizes are an important factor in the design of the turbine (Fig. 18.16). The age of container traffic prescribes maximum dimensions which must not be exceeded if a drastic rise in transportation cost is to be avoided. With overseas shipping, in particular, the question arises whether transporting the tower makes economic sense or whether it might not be cheaper to have the tower manufactured by a local company.;When large wind turbines with rotor diameters exceeding 50 m are to be moved, thetransportation problem also shifts into a higher dimension. Only in the rarest of cases there will be a rail connection so that road transportation by truck remains as the only option. Transportation by road is subject to some restrictions which must be observed. Un derpasses are usually subject to a height restriction of 4.5  4.8 m. The length of the transport vehicle should not exceed 20  25 m since otherwise the HGV transporters lose their manoeuvrability. Because of these restrictions, route planning with respect to underpasses, overhead lines and the radii of curves of the roads is an absolute necessity.;The transportation problem is also determined by the wind turbines technical designand by its method of erection. There are two mutually opposed aims in evidence. On the one hand, the assembly should be carried out as much as possible at the factory site, to save time and costintensive assembly work at the site and, on the other hand, there are the problems of transporting the entire nacelle and mounting it on the tower.;The rotor blades of the large turbines are mostly transported on edge in a pack of threes ina special transport vehicle. In this arrangement, it is not only the blade height of over 60 m for turbines of the 5 MW class which presents a problem. Smaller rotor blades, too, have a depth of over 3.5 m at the blade root so that the total height on the transport vehicle can reach the limit set by underpasses (Fig. 18.17).;18.18). The nacelles of the 5 MW class are much more problematic. They can only be transported over short distances on a few roads. One way out is transportation by ship, e.g. on canals (Fig. 18.19).