9.6 ROTOR SHAFT AND BEARING ASSEMBLY 339unproblematic. The experience of almost two decades of commercial wind turbine tech nology has shown that, without exception, all the bearings in the mechanical drive train, including the rotor blade bearings, form distinct weak spots with respect to service life. For this reason, some general comments about the design of the roller bearings in a wind turbine appear to be appropriate. They relate to the rotor blade bearings, the rotor bearings, the bearings in the gearbox, the bearings of the generator rotor and, finally, to the yaw bearing of the nacelle.;It must be noted firstly that the number of socalled roll cycles for the rotor bearings is extremely high due to the high number of operating hours of the calculated service life of at least twenty years. This does not apply to the rotor blade bearings and the yaw bearing of the nacelle where the problem is the great static loading. A further unfavour able factor with regard to the service life of the roller bearings is presented by the de formations and vibrations which are unavoidable in almost all structural areas of a wind turbine. These conditions must be taken into account by an appropriate construction of the bearings and also by the sealing of the bearing housings. Regardless of these obvi ously difficult operating conditions for the roller bearings, it is also necessary to consider that constructional defects or disturbances in the overall structure frequently manifest themselves as bearing damage. For this reason, a premature failure of roller bearings is not always attributable to an inadequate construction of the bearings them selves but is frequently an indication of other defects.;where Lh  nominal service life (h) n  rotational speed (r.p.m.) C  dynamic load rating (kN) P  dynamic equivalent loading (kN) p  life exponent ()  A criterion for the dimensioning under specific conditions is the socalled dynamic characteristic;2.0 and 5.0. The larger values apply to continuously operated machines with a nominal service life of up to 100 000 hours. For wind turbines, a service life of, for example, more than 130 000 hours with a 10  failure probability is demanded. However, the