 more or less matching speed levels of the prime mover and the generator. Commonpower station generators are designed to run at 1500 or 1600 r.p.m., respectively.;These requirements are met by steam or gas turbines and with some restrictions also bydiesel engines, at least with respect to the especially important first item, but not by wind rotors. It is virtually a characteristic of the latter that their speed and torque are subject to particularly high variations. Another point is that the rotors rotational speed is quite dif ferent from that required by the generator. These in a nutshell are the problems of me chanicalelectrical energy conversion in a wind turbine. The important factor is that the mechanical drive train must be able to absorb the unfavourable properties inherent in a wind rotor as the prime mover, thus creating the prerequisite for driving the electric gener ator. Given the conditions outlined above, the technical solutions available for connecting the electric generator to the rotor give rise to a series of fundamental technical questions. The first question arises when the rotor speed is to be matched to the speed of the electric generator;Why not have the generator driven directly by the rotor? A simple calculation showsthat, assuming the rotor speed of a large turbine to be 20 r.p.m., a generator running at the same speed would have to have 350 pairs of poles to provide alternating current with a frequency of 50 Hz. Accommodating such a number of poles on a generator rotor would require a diameter of at least 10 to 15 m. Multipole generators of this type are used in combination with hydroelectric turbines, but they have hitherto not been eco nomically viable in wind turbines.;However, this situation has changed in recent years. Today, progress in frequencyconverter technology permits costeffective combinations of variablefrequency electric generators followed by frequency converters, providing the necessary constant grid frequency. A generator driven directly by the rotor hence need no longer be designed for the grid frequency, so that the required number of pole pairs and the resulting diame ter can be reduced considerably. Gearless generator systems of this type with frequency converters have thus become a genuine alternative to the traditional generatorgearbox arrangement (s. Chapt. 10.5.4).;Regardless of these more recent developments, most manufacturers still rely on theconventional drive train design with a gearbox between the rotor and the generator. What kind of transmission gearing is suitable for this purpose? A transmission with variable speed would be desirable. An infinitely variable transmission between rotor and electric generator would immediately have several advantages. On the one hand, the rotor could be operated at its optimal tipspeed ratio at any wind speed, which would increase energy yield. In addition, the rotors surgelike dynamic torque and speed variations would be isolated. Unfortunately, a costeffective continuously variable