The electrical infrastructure of a wind park is determined by two aims, firstly to keep the costs as low as possible, and secondly to minimise the electrical transmission losses whilst at the same time ensuring high fault tolerance. In the case of buried cables, the fault tolerance is twice or threetimes that of overhead lines. Among the parameters available for selection, the cable lengths are largely predetermined by the size of the wind park and the distance from the grid connection point. This leaves only the voltage level and the cable crosssections as design variables. To a certain degree, it is also possible to minimise the number of switch gear sections required and of any interstage transformers by way of the geometric layout.;The electrical power dissipation PL can be reduced by means of larger line crosssections, i.e. a reduction in the ohmic resistance R or  much more effectively  by a higher voltage which is accounted for via the current intensity squared;For practical reasons, and from the point of view of costs, care should be taken not to exceed a certain value of the line crosssections. If this point is reached, it is then advis able for economic reasons to change to the next higher voltage level. On the other hand, a certain minimum crosssectional area is required for preventing thermal overloading of the cable (Fig. 18.5). The internal cabling of the wind park is first of all a geometric problem. The sites for the wind turbines have now been established and the task is to interconnect them in such a way that the cable lengths and the number of switchgear sections and of any interstage transformers which may be required is minimised. In most cases, the substation containing the switchgear and, if necessary, a transformer for raising the level of the voltage to that at the grid connecting point is located at one of the wind turbines. One further task is the choice of the correct voltage level. The generators of smaller wind turbines operate with low voltage (400 volts) and can be connected to a lowvoltage cable.