For the example of Table 20.7 and Table 20.8, the increase in annual operating costs;For the example of Table 20.7 and Table 20.8, the increase in annual operating costsand the electricity sales revenue were assumed to be 2  per annum (inflation rate) and in addition it was supposed that the residual value of the wind park is still 15  of the initial capital costs at the end of its economic service life of 20 years. Given these as sumptions, a positive capital value of 1,027  million is obtained.;Average power generation costs of KW 9.0 CentkWh are obtained. The recovery;Average power generation costs of KW 9.0 CentkWh are obtained. The recoveryfactor (annuity) is fW  8.72 . If the increasing factors for the inflation and the elec tricity price are assumed with the same figure, as it is in this example, the results are the same as calculated with the static approach (see Chapt. 20.2.2);By themselves, these figures do not provide much information. They are of significance when several different investments are compared using these criteria as reference. This is the case with large utilities where often a number of alternatives are compared with respect to technology and site. Such choice is usually not available for wind energy utilisation which is why cashflow calculation is more informative for large wind energy projects. This is described in the next chapter.;Today, large investments are assessed economically almost exclusively by applying a cashflow calculation over the economic service life of the investment object. This method is generally called a cashflow calculation.;The cashflow method is based on an accounting spreadsheet that is a yearbyyearlisting of revenue income and expenses over the service life of the project, taking into consideration such dynamic factors as price increases, variable tax payments and so on. The result of the continuous comparison of earnings and expenses is the socalled cash flow. Unfortunately, the term cash flow is not clearly defined in the relevant literature. One widely used definition is that cash flow is the difference between income and ob jectrelated expenses including interest payments. Accordingly, cash flow is the money available before depreciation, redemption, tax payments and profits. In other words, these are the liquid means generated which are available for repayment, taxes and divi dend payments.;The cashflow calculation thus provides a complete overview of the most importanteconomic figures of the investment object in its assumed lifetime. As always, however, the truth is much more complex. Only a slight change in the input data, for example in the indices of price and cost increase, will dramatically alter the numerical values after a few years. It could also be said that, with the appropriate input data in ones calculation, any investment can be made to appear to blossom or to wilt. Moreover, the profitability criteria derived from the cashflow calculation, e.g. the internal interest rate or internal