792 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSthen rated generator power and tower height. An allin estimate of the specific manufac turing costs can only be justified on the basis of costs per square meter rotorswept area.;Admittedly, this fact makes a comparison with conventional energy systems more difficult. There is always the temptation of thinking and comparing on the basis of costs per kilowatt. This will probably not change much in the future either. A comparison with conventional systems on this basis only makes sense if the annual utilisation time is com parable. This situation exists, for example, when a large wind turbine at a very good windy site is compared with a mediumload thermal power station. In both cases, the utilisation times of about 2000 to 4000 fullload hours per year are of similar magnitude. Under these conditions, a comparison of the specific manufacturing costs with reference to the rated power is justified.;When comparing wind turbines against one another, the characteristic value ofkW makes sense only if the specific installed power per rotorswept area Wm2 is approximately comparable. If the conditions differ greatly, the specific cost values must be corrected accordingly or the specific costs per square meter rotorswept area must be used.;The specific costs per rotorswept area figure is, however, not meaningful enough forexact economic calculations. Ultimately, it is the investment related to the energy yield, commonly the annual energy production, which is the valid measure. This is, of course, siterelated or, more precisely, it depends on the power characteristics of the wind tur bine and the wind regime.;The performance of an actual project can, therefore, be characterised by the parameterinvestment cost per kilowatthour per year (USkWh). Using this parameter, the profit ability of the investment wind turbine at a certain site can be assessed with high accuracy. The basis certainly has to be the turnkey investment costs, i.e. the costs of the wind turbine including all siterelated additional costs. Compared with the sales prices for power genera tion from wind energy, for example, approximately 0.09 USkWh this value must not exceed 0.80 USkWhyear by much if an economically acceptable repayment period of about 15 years is to be achieved.;Naturally, the ultimate criterion for profitability are the costs of energygenerationbut these require further factors such as the capital and operating costs to be included (s.a. Chapt. 20).;19.2.1 Structural Masses as a Basis for Determining the Manufacturing;In the first phase of the more recent wind energy technology, most of the countries interested in this technology preferred to promote the construction of large test installa tions 1. It is well known that none of these earlier, large wind turbines were able to achieve commercial status (s.a. Chapt. 2.6). In retrospect it becomes clear, that, apart from the technical and organisational problems of that time, it was the extraordinarily high construction costs of the turbines which were the main reason for this. The specific construction costs were within a range of 2000 to 2500 m2 rotor swept area. Referred to the rated power of the turbines, these were costs of 2000 to 5000 kW. The specific construction costs of the large test installations were thus more than twice as high as the