The conversion of the greatly differing rotational speeds of the rotor and the electric generator has given the designers of the first wind turbines many headaches. This situa tion led to costly lowspeed generator designs and to hydraulic or pneumatic transmis sion systems to the generator (Chapt. 9.1). Aerodynamicists made efforts to drive the rotor speed as high as possible in order to lower the gear ratio. It was assumed that costs would also increase considerably with increasing gear ratios, so that the development of rotors with extremely high tipspeed ratios was pushed forward.;This situation has changed with the progress which has been made in gearbox technology. Today, highperformance gearboxes with gear ratios of up to 1100 and more are available. In many areas of mechanical engineering, gearboxes are used which are suitable for deployment in wind turbines, as regards their technical concept, their effi ciency and their operating life. The gearbox for the wind turbine has become a vendor supplied component, which, with certain adaptations, can be taken from the standard product range of the gearbox manufacturers.;Regardless of this favourable situation, the gearbox has been and still is a source offailures and defects in many wind turbines. The cause of these gearbox problems is not so much the gearbox itself, rather the correct dimensioning of the gearbox with regard to the load spectrum. In wind turbines, it is easy to underestimate the high dynamic loads to which the gearbox is subjected. Thus, in the early phase, many turbines had gearboxes which were undersized. Having learned their lessons, successful manufacturers equipped their turbines with ever stronger gearboxes and thus, in the course of development, em pirically arrived at the right dimension.;Toothedwheel gearboxes are constructed in two different forms. One is the parallel shaft or spurgear system, the other is the technically more elaborate planetary gearing. The gear ratio per single reduction is limited, so that the difference in diameter between the small and the large wheel does not become too unfavourable. Parallelshaftgear stages are built with a gear ratio of up to 15, whereas planetary stages have a gear ratio of up to 112. Wind turbines generally require more than one stage. Figure 9.43 shows what effects different designs have on gearbox size, mass and relative cost 10.;It is noteworthy that the threestage planetary design has only a fraction of the overallmass of a comparable parallel shaft system. The relative costs are reduced to about one half. In the megawatt power class, the multistage planetary gearbox is, therefore, clearly superior. In smaller power classes, the comparison is not quite as unambiguous. In the range up to about 500 kW, parallelshaft gear designs are often preferred for cost reasons.;Small wind turbines are equipped with parallelshaft gear systems. The prevailingmodels are twostage gearboxes which are commercially available from numerous manufacturers as modified universal transmissions (Fig. 9.44).