Cast steel is increasingly being used for loadbearing structural components. The spe cific costs per weight are comparatively cheep. But the costs for the moulds have to be amortised with the numbers produced.;The electrical system consists of the generator, the frequency converter if installed, and the general electrical equipment with cabling and the control systems for control and operations management (Chapt. 9.7). In contrast to the mechanical components, it is more telling to relate the specific costs of this subsystem to power than to weight. The specific costs are thus given in kW. There is a distinct trend for the electrical com ponents to become specifically more inexpensive with increasing size (rated power).;The specific manufacturing costs of wind turbines only become meaningful if they are compared with similar products. This requires a certain amount of caution. The product used for comparison should not only be comparable with regard to its design, i.e. mate rial and structural complexity, but the stress level and service life should also not devi ate very much. Not least, the production status is also highly significant. An automobile, for example, would be a completely unsuitable reference product. With certain reser vations, material and structural complexity could just barely be compared. The required service life, however, which amounts to only a few thousand hours in a car, and the production status, which is characterised by a largely automated assemblyline produc tion, are completely incompatible. Under these conditions, the specific manufacturing costs are on completely different levels.;Table 19.7 shows a selection of reference products which can be allocated to thevarious subsystems of a wind turbine. Naturally, individual points are open to discus sion as to whether the product does indeed provide a reliable reference value for the specific manufacturing costs of a wind turbine. However, by comparing several prod ucts and by discussing existing differences and incompatible points, a reliable picture of the costs to be expected can be obtained.;If the components of a wind turbine are arranged in accordance with the defined areas, this can be used to develop a usable cost model. Naturally, there can be considerable deviations in the individual components in some cases depending on the individual designrelated differences but overall, the cost breakdowns given in Tables 19.18 and 19.19 provide a picture of the cost structure of a wind turbine corresponding to the cur rent state of the technology.