19.2.2 Structural Masses of Present Wind Turbines;Wind power technology has made considerable advances in the last twentyfive years. This progress is not primarily related to the basic technical designs. Wind turbines do not look much different today than at the beginning of the nineteeneighties. Instead, the development has taken place inside, less obvious to a layman. The constructional penetration and optimisation has led to the theoretically predicted rise in the specific structural mass with increasing size being limited to such an extent that the specific manufacturing costs, and thus the economics of power generation from wind energy, became more and more advantageous with each new generation of turbines.;Figure 19.6 shows the result of a statistical analysis of the specific structural massesof existing wind turbines. It shows the tower head masses, i.e. the weight of rotor and nacelle with respect to the rotorswept area. At a first glance, the rising trend is scarcely perceptible. The statistics include many smaller turbines which are almost without ex ception older types and are, therefore, of a backward state of development. If a 40m turbine were to be constructed in accordance with the latest findings like the more recent, larger turbines, the increase in specific structural mass with size would be much more distinct. The market situation of recent years has led to the manufacturers linking their advances in development to turbines of ever increasing size. Which is the reason why the statistics do not reflect the increase in specific structural mass with size dictated by the physics of the theoretical models. Todays reality also represents the opposite trend of a reduction in specific structural mass with size due to the design evolution of wind turbines in recent years. Regardless of these reservations, and not considering a few nonconformists, different lines of development can be seen which characterize certain turbine designs.;With their low tipspeed ratio and heavy construction, the smaller stallcontrolled three bladed wind turbines in sizes of 15 to 20 m rotor diameter had a specific towerhead mass of between 25 and 35 kgm. The large experimental turbines of Danish origin (Nibe, Windane, Tjaereborg) built in the eighties or those in the Danish style like WKA 60 and AWEC60 showed the highest values of more than 60 kgm. In these wind turbines, several weight enhancing factors come together heavy rotor blades, huge nacelles with drivetrain components on a heavy bedplate and a comparatively high ratio of rated power to rotorswept area (Tjaereborg 700 Wm2). However, some dis tinctly lighter designs could already be found among the earlier large threebladed tur bines. Particularly the threebladed machines by the British manufacturer Howden, the HWP750 and HWP1000, had comparatively advantageous values of about 35 kgm.;In the 5MW class, corresponding to a rotor diameter of 120  125 m, the specifictower head mass ranges between not quite 30 kgm2 (Multibrid) to almost 50 kgm2 (Enercon E112126). However, it must be taken into consideration that these turbines are prototypes, the development of which is not yet concluded.