The grid of power lines must, therefore, be reinforced at the critical wind power infeed points, a problem which is particularly apparent when offshore wind energy is used. To be able to deliver the offshore wind energy at all, the offshore capacities al ready foreseeable in Europe necessitate an expansion of the highvoltage line in the NorthSouth direction. Transporting power over a wide area in Europe from North to South is an important goal in any case. The maximum grid loading becomes apparent in winter in Northern countries whereas the maximum grid loading in the South occurs in summer, often due to the demand for air conditioningcooling. It should be possible to make use of this balance.;Controlling the grid loading, too, must no longer be taboo in the future. Many largerconsumers can be disconnected at certain times which would make it possible to reduce the load peaks in the grid.;Looking at the more distant future, the question arises whether it isnt possible toprovide certain storage facilities in the grid. Unfortunately, the number of pumped storage plants cannot be increased significantly. Relief could be provided by new tech nology such as, for example, compressed air energy storage. In Germany (Lower Saxony), a related project has been in preparation for some time, using an old salt de posit for storing the compressed air (s.a. Chapt. 16.1.1). Generating hydrogen with cur rent which cannot be used in the grid from time to time is another possibility. Not lastly, a somewhat more dated concept, namely that of using magnetically supported flywheels rotating in evacuated housings for storing energy also in the long term, could enter the domain of what is technologically and economically feasible (s.a. Chapt. 16.1.1).;These examples show clearly that the further organisational and technological development of the power transmission systems is an indispensible task complementing the further development of the renewable energy systems. This necessity has surfaced first as a result of the rapid evolution of wind energy utilisation in the last twenty years, but the problems are in no way restricted to the utilisation of wind energy.;The integration of wind turbines into existing interconnected power station systems as well as the planning of the future supply systems brings up a question repeatedly asked with regard to the technical utilisation of wind energy Can wind turbines replace con ventional power stations? Hasty answers such as Wind is unpredictable and when needed, its not available and thats why theres no way they can replace conventional power stations, are of little help. The problem is much more complex and requires both unprejudiced discussion and a qualified answer.;An energy supply system consisting of a pool of powerplants of various types providessocalled firm power. Firm power is the minimum power which is available at the point in time of the maximum annual load with a given probability (security of supply). With a given maximum annual load, the installed total power needed for achieving security of supply must be just enough for its firm power to cover the maximum annual load. The difference between installed and firm power is the required reserve power. Each individ ual power station contributes to the firm power. The magnitude of this contribution de pends on the installed total power of a power station pool and on the availability of the