An important aspect of the definition of availability is the acquisition and documentation of the data in a way which is comprehensible to the operator. Experience has shown that, although the availability is precisely defined in the purchase or mainte nance contract, operational data acquisition is quite frequently inadequate for calculat ing the actual availability achieved in accordance with the contractual agreements. On concluding a contract, a potential purchaser is well advised to have the corresponding data acquisition and documentation explained to him, and to obtain contractual assur ances in this respect. It is especially in the initial years of operation, in which the guar anteed availability is frequently not achieved in its full extent because of technical retrofits, that it is a matter of cash for the operator.;What levels of availability can be expected from wind turbines today? In the initial yearsof the commercial utilisation of wind energy, the average availabilities achieved were still relatively modest (Fig. 14.30). However, the reliability of the turbines increased continu ously. For the last ten years, availability values of 98  and more have been achieved 13. Thus, wind turbines are exhibiting extremely high availability values which bear compari son even with other powergenerating plants.;When assessing the availability figures, the required maintenance effort must not beignored. From an economic point of view, a technical availability of 98 , achieved by servicing and maintenance costing, e.g. 20 or 30 of the income, is a disastrous result. A commercially viable situation requires an availability of about 98  with annual maintenance costs of no more than 10  of the income.;A statement about the overall availability of a wind turbine including the wind regime for a certain site is sometimes desirable from an economic point of view, regard less of the intermingling of technical and meteorological conditions. The term capacity factor c is commonly used to this end. It is defined using the mean power , which is output by the wind turbine yields in a calendar year, and the rated power Pr