6.4 DESIGN LOAD ASSUMPTIONS 191product or even of an associated action like the investment in a wind farm authenticated and certified by independent experts. Against this background, extensive test procedures were developed for wind turbines which are reflected in the most varied test certificates. From the environmental conditions through the load assumptions, from the construction to the surveying of wind turbine installations, all these fields are the subject of certifica tions. Without any claim for completeness, these are;Most of the organisations offering certifications are profitoriented commercial under takings. For this reason, they will attempt to extend their services to all possible areas. However, in many areas it is more than doubtful whether a certificate, for example for production or for transportation, has any objective use. Neither is the situation im proved by the fact that the organisations have for some years been advertising socalled accreditations which, in turn, are issued by private commercial organisations. This practice, too, and the standards of the authorities which extend over ever more new fields, serve the general need of the consumers for ever more safeguards and less per sonal responsibility.;As ever, the decisive criterion for the quality of a product is the technical competenceand financial capacity of its manufacturer. It is only the manufacturer who really bears responsibility for his product through his warranty. If something goes wrong, the finan cial consequences will hit the manufacturer and his customer, never the certification organisations. Certificates, however attractivesounding, are therefore no substitute for trust in the manufacturers and their product.;6.4.2 IEC Classes of Wind Turbines and German Wind Zones;The structural dimensioning of a wind turbine is determined to a considerable extent by the wind conditions at the intended site. The demands on structural strength are much lower on sites with relatively low wind speeds and little turbulence than on sites with high average wind speeds and corresponding air turbulence. The turbulence can also be increased by particular forms of terrain (see Chapt. 13.4). For this reason, the load as sumptions are adapted to the different wind conditions. It would not make any economic sense to design the structural strength sweepingly for the highest wind speeds and onsite conditions occurring.