The starting point for determining the performance of a wind turbine is the family of aerodynamic rotor power curves. Its origin and its significance are described in Chapter 5. However, the power curves only describe the performance of the rotor, the effective power of the wind turbine is additionally also influenced by a number of turbinerelated technical parameters. A number of losses must be taken into consideration before the rotor power coefficients result in effective turbine power coefficients. The effective turbine power, and thus the energy yield, are influenced by the restriction to the permis sible maximum power of the electric generator, the losses in the electromechanical drive train, the control and operational sequence of the turbine and also by the yaw drive and the cuttingin and out characteristics of the turbine.;14.1.1 Installed Generator Power and Rotor Speed;The first step from the rotor power curves to the effective turbine power is to determine the generator power to be installed. After the rotor diameter and the rotor hub height, the maximum permissible continuous output of the generator, the rated power, has the greatest influence on the energy yield. It also influences the optimum rotor speed. It is not a simple matter to determine the optimum correlation between rotor diameter and the installed generator power theoretically on the basis of a predetermined wind speed distribution 1. Optimization requires including the manufacturing costs of the wind turbine since these rise with increasing power rating. This means finding a further opti mum between increasing energy yield and rising manufacturing costs since it is not only maximizing the energy yield but also minimizing the power generating costs which is the aim to all the efforts. However, the manufacturing costs of a wind turbine are influ enced by numerous, mathematically intangible factors so that, in practice, the rated power is specified empirically with a given rotor diameter, taking into consideration the intended conditions of use, primarily the wind conditions (s.a. Chapt. 14.6.5).;After a certain rated power has been specified with a given rotor diameter, or vice versa,there is the problem of finding the correct rotor speed. The power characteristics of the rotor or, more precisely, the shape of the cPRlines, shows that the maximum power coeffi cient is only achieved with a certain tipspeed ratio. Keeping the rotor speed constant, if a cPRline is plotted against the wind speed, it can be seen immediately that the maximum of the power coefficient is reached at a certain wind speed. The maximum can be shifted towards lower or higher wind speeds for different rotor speeds (Fig. 14.1). On the other hand, the frequency distribution of the wind speeds at a given site also has its peak only at a certain wind speed.