200 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSEScyclically through the rotation of the rotor and the everpresent wind turbulence. The loads are therefore largely covered with respect to fatigue strength by the load cases in normal operation. The individual load cases are distinguished by the operating cycle of the turbine. The starting point for defining the load cases is the frequency distribution of the wind speed on which the design is based, and the operating cycle of the turbine.;For each of these characteristic wind speeds a load case group is formed. The associated number of load alternations is derived from the fraction of time each wind speed class occupies within the wind speed distribution and from the number of rotor revolutions in these time segments. Considering the turbines design life, this implies, for example, 107 to 108 load cycles for the bending stress of the rotor blades.;The asymmetrical flow conditions for the rotor and the random wind speed fluctuations and the loads resulting from any malfunctions are added to this basic load spec trum. Having regard to the fatigue strength, the influence of the flow around the tower must not be forgotten. The loading by the flow around the tower occurs with the number of load cycles of the rotor revolutions during the life of the turbine for each individual rotor blade. For the total rotor force, this number is multiplied by the number of rotor blades.;Rotor startup and shutdown involve special load cases and load changes. These events occur so frequently during the life of the turbine that it must be assumed that they have an influence on fatigue life. They do in fact also represent a group of load cases, as different starting conditions with regard to wind speed, rotor speed or even blade pitch angle must be considered. When the rotor in wind turbines with pitch control starts up, the rotor blade pitch angle is either in the feathered position or in the starting position.In both cases, a more or less large component of the bending moment acts around the softer flapwise axis due to the inherent weight of the blades. If it occurs often enough, this special load case can be significant to the overall fatigue loading.;In larger wind turbines, the normal shutdown of the rotor is controlled by means ofblade pitch control as the rotational speed varies, so that no special loads are involved. One exception is fast braking, the emergency shutdown, where the reversed aerody namic thrust can cause increased loads.