7.6 MATHEMATICAL SIMULATION 265hub construction. The resonance diagram determined on this basis already provides reliable information about the resonant behaviour of any reasonable design. In most cases, the drive train and yaw control subsystems are decoupled from the overall system to such an extent that they can be considered in isolation.;If the vibrational behaviour is assessed as being particularly complex, or even critical,and if shifting of the natural component frequencies is no longer feasible by construc tional measures, a mathematical simulation of the coupled total system is unavoidable. Considering the fact that this mathematical simulation of the vibrational behaviour plays an important role in the development at least of large experimental turbines, the basic principles of mathematical simulation techniques will be explained here briefly.;As has been described above, the first step is to determine the natural frequencies ofthe main components. Based on this, the subsystems tower with nacelle and rotor mass are coupled mathematically to the subsystem rotating rotor, taking into account the kinematic and kinetic constraints. As is common practice in the case of multiple mass systems, further treatment is carried out according to a theory by Lagrange. The kinetic and potential energy, as well as the energy of the external forces (aerodynamic forces), are determined for the subsystems and then coupled according to a modal con dition of compatibility, i.e. one relating to the vibration mode. Differentiation of the energy equations yields differential equations (equations of motion) for the variation of the vibrations with time.;For masssymmetrical rotors, i.e. rotors with three and more blades, these equations;For masssymmetrical rotors, i.e. rotors with three and more blades, these equationsare comparatively easy to solve. The mathematical treatment of rotors with two or even only one rotor blade which are not gravitationally symmetrical is much more difficult. Due to the fact that the inertial moment alternates with rotation in relation to the fixed system of axes, the equations of motion contain timedependent periodic coefficients. This makes the matrix operations applied for solving the equations very complex. The solution is achieved with the aid of the socalled Floquet theory.;As a consequence of the periodic coefficients, the result contains nonsinusoidal naturalvibrations of the overall system with components of higher harmonics. To every degree of freedom, several natural frequencies can be assigned. In practice, one natural frequency or vibration mode is almost always distinctly dominant and, moreover, usually lies close to the natural frequency of the subsystem treated in isolation. This holds true at least as long as no resonance occurs (Fig. 7.29).;Apart from the phenomena explained here, the vibrational simulation of the entire system can reveal a number of other aeroelastic effects. Such as the socalled nacelle whirl vibration in which the centre of the rotor performs an elliptical movement, or transverse towernacelle vibrations. Axial towernacelle vibrations can affect the blade pitch control and manifest themselves as control system vibrations. In practice, these effects rarely play a role and are only mentioned here, therefore.