300 Wm2). A concept with one rotor blade would, therefore, only lead to an economi cally superior wind turbine, if significantly lower manufacturing costs could be achieved. From the present point of view, however, this appears to be more than im probable, at least in comparison with twobladed rotors.;In principle, the same considerations apply to the numerous rotor concepts with a verti cal axis of rotation. Even the best aerodynamic rotor designs with vertical axes, the Darrieus rotor and the Hrotor (Chapt. 5.8), do not achieve the power coefficients of horizontalaxis rotors. With maximum power coefficients of about 0.40, they are at least 10  lower. The aerodynamic properties with respect to the loading are more unfavour able in all verticalaxis rotors (Chapt. 6.2). In the case of the Darrieus rotor, there is the additional factor that the manufacturing costs of the rotor itself are also higher than those of a horizontalaxis rotor. The comparatively long rotor blades with their complex geometry, exposed to high dynamic loads, are very costly to manufacture (Chapt. 7.3). Even more decisive is the circumstance that all verticalaxis models have a distinctly lower optimum tipspeed ratio than horizontalaxis rotors (Chapt. 5.8). The equivalent power output must be generated by higher torque. This fact considerably affects overall mass and thus manufacturing costs. This is shown clearly in a comparison between the weights of current verticalaxis turbines with conventional horizontalaxis designs.;These disadvantages of lower aerodynamic efficiency, greater overall mass, unfavourable aerodynamic loading and high rotor blade costs must be compensated for by simplifying the remaining components. The absence of a yawing system and of the tower is not enough, especially since the lack of a tower also entails a lower energy yield at the same wind speed. There are, therefore, as yet no verticalaxis wind turbines which are economically competitive with their horizontalaxis counterparts. Overall mass and manufacturing costs are about a third higher, with lower energy yield. If verti calaxis turbines are to become an economic alternative to the horizontalaxis turbines currently prevailing, they will definitely require a longer period of development.;Nevertheless, there is an argument which speaks for the verticalaxis type of construction under certain conditions. The rotor blades own weight will not result in per ceptible alternating bending moments during rotation as in the case of propellerlike rotors. This could be an advantage for the vertical axis concept in the case of very large dimensions.