764 CHAPTER 18 WIND TURBINE INSTALLATION AND OPERATIONpersonnel for the acquisition of data characterising the instantaneous operating status, and for the retrieval of measurement values about the status of the most important units. In addition, certain operations required for maintenance can be performed manually. In principle, this information can also be accessed by the operator. However, numerous internal data concerning the technical state of the units and error messages are encrypted so that only limited information is available to the operator.;Usually, the information from the monitoring units of the individual wind turbinescan be sent to any other location using a telephone modem so that remote monitoring of the wind turbines is possible. In the case of wind farms containing a number of turbines, the data must be combined and transmitted serially. They can then be interrogated indi vidually by the remote monitoring station. Certain operations can also be performed from these stations. Thus it is possible, for example, to isolate the turbines from the grid and to start them again. This type of remote monitoring is standard practice today with all modern wind turbines. The corresponding software package is included in the tur bine delivery. In the case of large wind farms, higherlevel operating data are now often being fed into the Internet and can be retrieved from there.;The technical monitoring requires an appropriate data acquisition system in the turbine and, if possible, also the acquisition of data from the environment, for example wind and weather information from an external anemometer station or the acquisition of certain parameters from the grid. In the wind turbine, the required measurement data are acquired from sensors on the mechanical and electrical components (Fig. 18.40).;Fig. 18.40. Data acquisition in the nacelle of a GE1.5S turbine for monitoring its mechanical components (GE);The electrical data and information about the operating state are taken from the dataflow from the control system. Naturally, this data acquisition system must not interact with the control system if there is an error in the monitoring system. The data are stored