Apart from the broad aerodynamic whooshing of the rotor in the 1000 Hz range,wind turbines can generate impulsive, lowfrequency sound waves. These are generated when the lift forces acting on the rotor blades change rapidly due to discontinuous flow conditions. The main causes of this are rapid changes in the aerodynamic angle of attack and thus of the aerodynamic lift force. Rapid changes in lift are, for example, caused by wind turbulence in gusty wind or by flow separations at the rotor blades. Under these circumstances, stallcontrolled rotors without blade pitch adjustment may emit a charac teristic lowfrequency sound. From a certain distance, however, these are generally no longer perceived to be annoying.;Conversely, lowfrequency noise emission occurring as a result of tower shadow interference in downwind rotors must be assessed quite differently (Fig. 15.4). In the case of the MOD1 wind turbine in the USA, mentioned earlier, the associated noise turned out to be a major reason for complaints by residents. The turbines lattice tower created a considerable tower shadow for the downwind rotor mounted at a small distance away. Moreover, the propagation of the sharp pressure impulses generated by the periodic alternation of the rotor lift forces was assisted by the local topography. The oscillations of very low frequency in the inaudible infrasound range additionally triggered reso nances in house walls and windows of the lightly built weekend houses in the vicinity. This was the explanation for the mysterious psiphenomena experienced by the resi dents, such as the clattering of cups in their cabinets and similar events. The situation was thus extremely unfavourable, both with regard to the technical characteristics of the wind turbine and the specific conditions of its location.;Lowfrequency sound emissions can be observed in all downwind rotors, but withgreatly varying intensity. This problem must, therefore, be paid careful attention to when designing the turbine. Apart from the tower design, the technical parameters mainly responsible for the intensity of the emission are the rotors clearance from the tower and the rotor speed. Rotor speed is significant as, in the worst case, the frequency of the blades passing through the tower shadow can coincide with the separation fre quency of the Krmn vortices at the tower. At certain wind speeds, this may cause a triggering effect for the vortices, thus amplifying the noise further. The frequency of separation of the Krmn vortices can be determined by means of the socalled Strouhal number, which is a function of the Reynolds number.;The common denominator for all sounds of aerodynamic origin is that they increasesharply with increasing airflow velocity. Noise emissions increase by about the 5th power of the flow velocity, which, in turn, is essentially determined by the tangential velocity of the rotor blade tips 6. A reduction in bladetip speed by 25  results in a reduction of noise emissions by about 6 dB(A).;A low tipspeed ratio is, therefore, a most important criterion. With regard to this aspect, variablespeed or twospeed rotor operation becomes additionally attractive, par ticularly at low wind speeds when the ambient noise has not yet been increased by the wind speed and the rotor can be operated at a low speed. Apart from the airflow veloc ity, aerodynamic noise emission is also influenced by the power output, but to a much lower degree (Chapt. 15.2.3).;The aerodynamically caused sound power level of a wind rotor can be estimated inapproximation by means of various mathematical models 11. The theoretical determi nation of the frequency spectrum is more difficult and less accurate.