780 CHAPTER 18 WIND TURBINE INSTALLATION AND OPERATIONcorresponding to a fullload operating time of 2500 hours. This amounts to 100 000 hours running time over the turbines design life of 20 years. By comparison, a motor car travelling an assumed 20 000 km annually at an average speed of 80 kmh will achieve just 5000 operating hours.;The extremely high dynamic loading on the components is of special significance. Theload fluctuations by themselves already lead to high cyclic loads on the components. Com bined with the high number of operating hours, load alternations of an order of magnitude of 107 to 108 are obtained over the service life of the turbine (Chapt. 6.2.3 and 6.4). Material fatigue, therefore, requires special attention and there is also corrosion to be dealt with. For many materials, there are no verified empirical values available about the fatigue strength with 107 to 108 load alternations.;However, it would be wrong to conclude from these conditions that the requirementsfor servicing and maintenance are particularly high. Experience has shown that it is possible, nevertheless, to operate wind turbines with an economically justifiable amount of servicing and maintenance. This statement can be verified with statistical data for a period of almost 20 years. Naturally, there are fewer reliable data available for the sec ond half of the economic life of a turbine.;The precondition for achieving economically supportable maintenance and repair expenditure is that the aggravated environmental and operating conditions be considered carefully in the design and the selection of materials. For example, corrosion is much more a problem of product quality than of the more or less severe conditions onsite. This has been proven by the experience gained with other technical products, for in stance automobiles. The design and construction of a technical system must allow for the aggravated ambient and operating conditions to such an extent that the work re quired for maintenance remains within economically justifiable limits.;Thus, the maintenance work required is primarily a problem of investment cost. Inthe case of wind turbines, increased manufacturing costs for the benefit of a construc tion with lowermaintenance will be the more economical solution, as repairs are com paratively expensive due to the complex onsite servicing work requiring heavy trans portation and lifting equipment. This situation will change only if wind turbines can be produced with much lower cost in the future. In conditions such as these, expendable structures could be more economical but such a development looks unlikely at the present time, particularly for energy generating equipment intended for a long service life.;At present, all efforts are aimed at designs which are increasingly more maintenancefree. The impending commercial offshore use of wind turbines, in particular, requires an extension of maintenance intervals for economic reasons (Chapt. 17). In addition, there are still problems with the service life of certain components (gearboxes, bearings etc.) so that further design improvements are still required, the aim being that all components achieve a continuous service life of at least 20 years.