84 CHAPTER 4 PHYSICAL PRINCIPLES OF WIND ENERGY CONVERSIONretarded, it flows through and is then slowed down further to a minimum value behind the turbine. The flow lines show a widening of the stream tube to a maximum diameter at the point of lowest air velocity. Approaching the turbine, the static pressure increases, and then jumps to a lower value, to level out again at the ambient pressure behind the converter due to pressure equalisation. The flow velocity then also increases again to its initial value far behind the converter and the widening of the stream tube disappears. It is worthwhile to recall that these basic relationships were derived for an ideal, friction less flow, and that the result was obviously derived without having a close look at the wind energy converter. In real cases, the power coefficient will always be smaller than the ideal Betz value. The essential findings derived from the momentum theory can be summarised in words as follows; Even with an ideal airflow and lossless conversion, the ratio of extractable mechanicalwork to the power contained in the wind is limited to a value of 0.593. Hence, only about 60  of the wind energy of a certain crosssection can be converted into mechanical power.; When the ideal power coefficient achieves its maximum value cP  0.593, the windvelocity in the plane of flow of the converter amounts to two thirds of the undisturbed wind velocity and is reduced to one third behind the converter.;The momentum theory by Betz indicates the physically based, ideal limit value for the extraction of mechanical power from a freestream airflow without considering the design of the energy converter. However, the power which can be achieved under real conditions cannot be independent of the characteristics of the energy converter. The first fundamental difference which considerably influences the actual power depends on which aerodynamic forces are utilised for producing mechanical power. All bodies exposed to an airflow experience an aerodynamic force the components of which are defined as aerodynamic drag in the direction of flow, and as aerodynamic lift at a right angle to the direction of flow. The real power coefficients obtained vary greatly in dependence on whether aerodynamic drag or aerodynamic lift is used 2.