The potential user or planner of a wind turbine is frequently faced with the situation of not having any data on the wind regime at the intended location. There are basically only two possibilities for procuring wind data. Either a theoretical method as described, for instance, in the European Wind Atlas will be applied, or measurements will be taken at the site. It almost goes without saying that, whenever possible, both methods should be used in parallel so that the results can be compared.;The energy yield of a wind turbine can only be predicted with statistically validatedvalues of mean wind speed, wind speed distribution and the vertical wind profile. Statis tically reliable values require longterm measurements, though. Generally, specification of a reliable value for the longterm mean annual wind speed requires the mean value taken over at least thirty years. This means, however, that the user must rely on the literature published by meteorological institutes and organisations. Measurements taken by oneself over a period of only a few months with simple equipment are not suitable for this purpose.;On the other hand, the areas covered by the wind maps are usually so large that thedata are not transferable to specific local situations, particularly not in a complex ter rain. Mountainous topographies or particular building developments can cause consid erable local deviations from largescale data. These uncertainties can be eliminated by shortterm measurements.;Wind measurement over a relatively short period, for instance one year, offers the possibility of comparing these values with the longterm data measured within the same period of time at the closest location at which the longterm mean value is known. This permits verification of whether and to what extent the local value deviates from the value ascer tained for the larger area. If, in addition, the wind speed is plotted over time, indications as to the turbulence intensity can be derived from the wind variations. From the point of view of the prudently planning operator, wind measurements having this objective make sense and may even be necessary.;If several wind turbines or even a large wind farm is to be installed, the question ofthe prevailing wind direction or even the wind direction distribution arises. Efforts will always be undertaken to situate the wind turbines according to the prevailing wind direction (Chapt. 18). However, these measurements are highly timeconsuming, so that frequently qualitative information relating to the prevailing wind direction has to be relied on. The growth pattern of trees and bushes is an especially reliable indicator in this respect (Fig. 13.26).