But this situation does not as yet exist. Continuing exploitation of the windenergypotential will therefore only be pursued within socially accepted limits. However, a totally restrictive approach is to be rejected. Intentionally or naively, it is a strategy for maintaining outdated, traditional structures to the disadvantage of the ecology and for the benefit of the protagonists of the current line of energy politics. Wind energy must be granted a certain priority. In the individual case, it must not be subordinated because lines of microwave radio links will not be relocated or because of the mere suspicion that certain bird species might avoid the sites of wind turbines.;If the education of the public in these matters is consistently continued, basic legislation for the benefit of windenergy utilisation will certainly be understood and accepted. This would clear the way for supplying quite a considerable proportion of the energy re quirement with power provided by wind energy. This proportion will undoubtedly not be restricted to a few percent of the energy requirement. Whether the windenergy potential to be exploited in the course of the coming century  for example in the Euro pean Union  will amount to one hundred thousand or two hundred thousand megawatts, can be safely left to the future. The decisive fact is rather that the windenergy potential is high enough to cover a significant part of the power generation.;1. Frost, W.D., Asphiden, C. Characteristics of the Wind. In Spera, D.A. (ed.) Wind Turbine Technology. ASME Press, New York (1994) 2. Archer, C.L., Jacobson, M.Z. Evaluation of Global Wind Power. Stanford University, Stan ford (2005) 3. Sddeutsche Zeitung NASA Ocean windpower maps, SZ No 160 (2008) 4. Troen, T., Peterson, E. The European Wind Atlas. Ris National Laboratory, Denmark (1989) 5. Steinmann, R. Potentiale Binnenland, Windconcept, Germany (2008) 6. Deutscher Wetterdienst Windkarten der BRD, Deutscher Wetterdienst, Dept. Klima und Umweltberatung, Offenbach (1995) 7. Molly, J.P. Windenergie, 2nd edn., Verlag C. F. Mller, Karlsruhe (1990) 8. Huser, H., Keiler, J., Allgeier, T. BetreiberDatenbasis Hamburg (2001) 9. Frost, W., Long, B.H., Turner, R.E. Engineering Handbook on the Atmospheric Environ mental Guidelines for Use in Wind Turbine Generator Development. NASA Technical Paper 1359 (1978) 10. WINDPRO, Ris Test Station, Denmark (2005) 11. Gross, G., Frey, T., Trute, P. Die Anwendung numerischer Simulationsmodelle zur Berechnung der lokalen Windverhltnisse in komplexem Gelnde, DEWIMagazin, No. 20, Wilhelmshaven (February 2002) 12. Scheer, H. Sonnenstrategie, PiperVerlag (1993)