348 CHAPTER 9 MECHANICAL DRIVE TRAIN AND NACELLEproblems. Nevertheless, the rotor brake presents the systems designer of a wind turbine with issues which have consequences for the entire system.;The first and most important is, which task the rotor brake is to fulfil within the operating concept. In the simplest case, its role is restricted to a mere holding function dur ing rotor standstill. In this case, the brake must be dimensioned for the required holding torque of the rotor during standstill. This is determined in accordance with the aerody namic forces calculated to occur at the assumed maximum wind speeds (Chapt. 6.3.2).;Apart from its function as a pure rotor parking brake, the rotor brake can also be dimensioned as a service brake. As long as the braking torque and braking power (thermal loading) can be absorbed, the mechanical rotor brake can be used as a second independ ent braking system in addition to aerodynamic rotor braking and the operational reli ability of the wind turbine is considerably improved in this way. In small wind turbines, a mechanical rotor brake, which in cases of emergency prevents rotor runaway, has proved to be extraordinarily successful and is widely used today.;With increasing turbine size, it becomes more and more difficult to meet this requirement. For a turbine with a rotor diameter of 60 to 80 m, the rotor brake takes on almost absurd dimensions if it is to brake the rotor torque and power during fullload operation. For this reason, the task of the rotor brake in large turbines is always restricted to the function of pure parking brake.;Apart from the issue of the rotor brakes task with respect to operations, there is thequestion of where in the drive train the rotor brake is best installed. The alternatives are for the rotor brake to be on the lowspeed or on the highspeed side of the gearbox. In most turbines, efforts to keep the brake disk diameter as small as possible lead to the rotor brake being installed on the highspeed shaft, i.e. between gearbox and generator (Fig. 9.41). Owing to the higher rotational speed, the torque is one or even two orders of magnitude lower than at the slower rotor shaft, depending on the gear ratio.;It is inferior from the point of view of safety, since the braking function fails if the low speed shaft or the gearbox break down. Moreover, the rotor must be held by the gears during a standstill. Gears react with increased wear of the tooth flanks to small oscillat ing movements, which are unavoidable in a stopped wind turbine due to air turbulence. In some turbines, it is attempted to solve this problem by no longer locking the rotor during standstill but by letting it spin at low speed.;To avoid these disadvantages, the rotor brake was installed on the lowspeed rotorshaft in some earlier systems. In small wind turbines a fully effective operating brake can be implemented with justifiable effort on the lowspeed side, as long as design of the rotor shaft bearing assembly does not present an obstacle. The rotor brake on the lowspeed side was a common feature of many earlier stallcontrolled Danish wind turbines up to a power rating of about 100 kW in the Eighties. At that time it was con sidered to be an extra safety element even though the rotor brake was only designed as a parking brake.;Installing the rotor brake on the slow side is much more problematic in large windturbines, however. Even a parking brake already assumes a considerable size (Fig. 9.42). These disadvantages have led to the rotor brake being arranged on the high speed side behind the gearbox in almost all new systems. Most of the wind turbines are equipped additionally with a rotor locking device, which can be used to fix the rotor during repair work.