816 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTScost situation in the long run. These improvements will be of an order of magnitude which will provide for competition between the different concepts, but they do not point to a qualitatively different level in the manufacturing costs of a wind turbine. Hopes with regard to the general economic situation should, therefore, not be based on alterna tive technical concepts for the time being. For the foreseeable future, the realistic poten tial for reducing costs and improving economic efficiency lies in the evolution of the current systems.;19.2.9 On the Development Costs of Wind Turbines;An analysis of the production costs of wind turbines cannot be concluded without some remarks about the research and development (RD) costs. From the business point of view, RD costs must be apportioned to the sales price. The magnitude of this surcharge on the production costs naturally depends on the anticipated number of units produced. In most cases, however, it will not be possible to charge significantly more than 5 to 10  of the sales price for the amortisation of the RD costs. The currently produced number of wind turbines thus still only represents a very narrow basis for the industry for amortising the RD costs. Without public funding of these costs and related research projects, technical progress can only be achieved very slowly and in very small steps.;It is practically impossible to indicate generally valid figures on the level of development costs to be spent on a new project. The various conditions used as basis by the individual developers influence these costs at least as much as the product itself. Nev ertheless, there are some reference values from comparable fields of technology and also some empirical values from wind turbine development itself.;A correct interpretation of these empirical values first requires an exact definitionof the term RD costs. Today, it is largely common practice to refer to the costs of research and development in one breath. Upon closer examination, however, techno logical research is a different matter from engineering development with the goal of producing a specific product. The latter is based on available technologies and with these a new or optimised technical product is developed. Although these two tasks overlap, they should not be lumped together without differentiation.;The development and construction of wind turbines does not actually require any research in the field of new technologies, which does not mean that wind turbines do not profit from technological progress, for example in the field of materials research or elec tronics. The actual objective of the development of a wind turbine is the development of its system engineering, the component design and the manufacturing. In the text which follows, the term development costs is intended to mean expenses without technologi cal research. This is the only way in which development costs can be estimated.;Assuming that a complex system such as a larger wind turbine is to be developed andthe developer has experience and aids available from a previous, technically similar project, the development costs for the prototype must be expected to be at least twice as high as its construction costs. The investment costs for the devices and special tools must be added to this. This includes, for example, the rotor blade moulds if the rotor blades are to be developed and produced inhouse, and the moulds for the casting of the rotor hub and other large cast parts. In most cases, the suppliers also demand that the