In the last years much more complex mathematical models have been developed forevaluating the drive train dynamics 6. By means of these tools the influence of the elastic bearing systems of the gearbox and the generator are considered. Further more the influence of the electric control of the generator, for example including a special damper winding in the rotor can be evaluated.;The failure statistics of wind turbines display a conspicuous accumulation in the yaw system component. The smaller turbines, in particular, frequently have problems with the life span of the yaw drive system. The reason for this is that the dynamic loads act ing on the yaw system are often underestimated. It is, therefore, absolutely imperative that the dynamic load situation and the vibrational behaviour of the yaw drive be ana lysed. Just like the drive train, the azimuth drive has certain natural frequencies with respect to the yaw oscillation of the tower head. If resonances develop with the cycli cally alternating rotational forces of the rotor, destruction of the components is only a matter of time.;7.4.1 Modelling and Moments Around the Yaw Axis;In principle, the mathematical model of the yaw system is very simple (Fig. 7.17). If the tower may be considered as being torsionally stiff, a onemass model with an equiva lent mass for the rotor and the nacelle is sufficient in the simplest case. As a rule, this assumption applies to older tubular steel towers of stiff design. Recent, more flexible towers require more accurate calculations which take into account the towers torsional elasticity. In this case a twomass model is necessary.;There is some difficulty in determining the torsional stiffness of the yaw drive from areal example. On the other hand, it is easier to determine the damping moments of fric tion. With some experience, it is nevertheless possible to calculate the numerical values of the most important first natural frequencies of the yaw vibration. On the basis of this and including the external excitation sources, the analysis of the vibrational behaviour can then be carried out.;The load situation for the yaw system varies greatly depending on the existing designfeatures of the turbine, particularly on the number of rotor blades, the rotor position rela tive to the tower, the hub type and the distance of the rotor plane from the tower axis. In any case, the changing yaw moments can trigger undesirable torsional vibrations in the yaw system. Hence, the system must be designed with sufficient torsional stiffness. In addition, there must be sufficient frictional damping during the yawing process and, in a fixed azimuth position, suitable arresting forces. For damping the motion during yawing one or two yaw brakes can be activated.