This method is well suited to being used as a rough measure to limit power input but not really as a means for finely tuned control. It has been proposed as a power limiting method to be used in conjunction with variablespeed rotor operation. If the rotor has a wide speed range, its power input can be controlled within a relatively wide operating range by varying its speed, e.g. by controlling the torque of the electric generator. It is only at higher wind velocities that the speed range is no longer adequate enough to provide for effective power control. The rotor is then gradually turned out of the wind. It 333was hoped that this method would provide a practicable solution even in relatively large turbines, so that it would not be necessary to have complex blade pitch control mechanisms. The concept was tested in the experimental Italian turbine GAMMA60. The published results indicate that this unconventional type of power control had not caused any insurmountable problems but no further development took place 19.;The efficiency of fast turning wind rotors is determined to a great extent by the aerody namic properties of the airfoils used. Selecting the most suitable airfoil and achieving a clean rotor blade surface is therefore of great significance with a view to perform ance and manufacture of the rotorblades. This finding, obvious in aviation, has gained acceptance in wind turbine technology only with the more recent developments. Apart from their influence on the rotor performance, certain airfoil characteristics are also of significance for the control and operating behaviour of the rotor. The stall char acteristics of the airfoil, which manifests itself in a steep drop in the lift curve after the critical angle of attack has been exceeded, can be more or less abrupt. Since in certain operating conditions the rotor unavoidably passes into ranges of the angle of attack in which the flow separates, a good natured stall behaviour of the airfoil is of impor tance.;The most important aerodynamic property of the airfoil is the lifttodrag ratio (LD). In modern airfoils, the lift is up to two hundred times greater than the drag. As already discussed in Chapter 4.2, this fact is the cause of the superiority in performance of a rotor using lift.;As expected, when the lift to drag ratio is low, the power coefficient which can be achieved also decreases. The optimum point of the power coefficient shifts to lower design tipspeed ratios. When the LDratio and tipspeed ratio are high, the number of rotor blades has relatively little influence on the achievable cPR value. When the LD ratio and tipspeed ratio are low the number of blades apparently is of greater importance. In other words, lowspeed rotors need many blades, but their airfoil charac teristics are not so important. Highspeed rotors manage all right with fewer blades, but the airfoil characteristics become a decisive factor for power generation (Fig. 5.32).