A systems ability to shut down immediately is by no means a matter of course, particularly in energy generation systems. Thermal power stations, for instance, cannot be switched off by the push of a button when a fault occurs. In a wind turbine, really catastrophic consequences of a defect can only occur if the rotor emergency shutdown fails. The rotor braking system is, therefore, the dominating safety system of a wind turbine.;By pitching the rotor blades quickly towards feathered position, wind turbines withblade pitch control can brake the rotor aerodynamically and can bring it to a standstill within only a few seconds. Blade pitching must start immediately with a high pitching rate to prevent rotor overspeed. When the electric generator loses synchronisation, the entire rotor power becomes available for accelerating the rotor. Without immediate braking, the rotor speed would increase very rapidly and within seconds the rotor would be destroyed by the centrifugal forces. On the other hand, there are limits set to the pitching rate so that the bending moments developing at the blades during the aero dynamic braking do not become too great (Chapt. 6.3.3).;Rotors without blade pitch control are almost always equipped with aerodynamicbrakes (Chapt. 5.3.2 and 10.4). These are usually triggered by a centrifugal switch at a certain rotor overspeed and are then deployed by a pretensioned spring (failsafe de sign). Failsafe design of more recent turbines also have hydraulically actuated, aerody namic bladetip brakes, which have the advantage of being retractable without manual intervention at the rotor blades. This is an operational advantage at sites with frequent grid outages necessitating rotor braking (Chapt. 7.7).;Ensuring the reliability of aerodynamic rotor braking requires redundant releasemechanisms and, if economically justifiable, also redundant actuators and energy supply systems for the actuating elements (Chapt. 8.5.5). In addition to the aerodynamic brakes, small turbines can be stopped by using a mechanical brake. In large turbines, the mechanical brake between gearbox and generator is only designed to act as an arresting brake (Chapt. 8.7).;Monitoring of component functions in the section of the mechanicalelectrical drive train can be carried out relatively easily and reliably by means of the usual indicators, such as oil pressures and temperatures. These procedures are stateoftheart for any complex technical system. It is much more difficult to monitor structural strength. In wind turbines, a possible structural failure of the rotor blades presents a special risk.;The frequently voiced fear that rotor blades will break when exposed to strong stormsis quite unfounded in the case of wind turbines. Breaking loads at high wind speeds can be calculated highly accurately and are accordingly included in the load cases. How ever, rotor blades being hurled away or even toppling turbines are a real hazard in the case of small, nonprofessional wind turbines which are frequently built in doit yourself fashion without sufficient theoretical bases of calculation. On the other hand, it is extremely rare today that large modern wind turbines are destroyed by a storm. Rather, the danger lies in material fatigue as a consequence of the high dynamic loads experienced in operation.