18.8 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR 781associated performance of prescribed routine maintenance work. Wind turbines are no exception in comparison with other complex technical systems.;The manufacturers manuals contain descriptions of the components and of the procedures for the checks to be carried out at fixed intervals. These details are only of interest to the operator if he wants his own personnel to perform the maintenance work, some thing which, to date, is done in only a few exceptional cases. As a rule, the basic pattern of the routine maintenance consists of a halfyearly check of the important components and functions. Comprehensive inspections are provided for in cycles of one or two years. The routine maintenance covers the following areas; Checking the major components, e.g. visual inspection of the rotor blades, shafts,; Checking the major components, e.g. visual inspection of the rotor blades, shafts,gearboxes, servomotors etc. and checking the most important flange joints (tighten ing torques of the screws),;This work is billed at flat rates in the completed maintenance contract (Chapt. 20). Small;This work is billed at flat rates in the completed maintenance contract (Chapt. 20). Smallrepairs (e.g. up to US 100) and small expendable parts are included in the flat rate. The appropriate details and additional costs accrued for travel by the technicians to and from the site etc. are regulated in the maintenance contract. The maintenance contract generally comes into force after the normal warranty period of two years has elapsed. The manufac turers will almost always tie an extension of the warranty period to e.g. 5 years to a demand for the conclusion of a longterm maintenance contract and frequently also to a higher purchase price for the turbines.;18.8.2 Causes of Damage and Repair Risks;A certain amount of technical defects and damage is unavoidable even with a highquality construction and careful maintenance. In almost all cases, smaller or private operators will attempt to cover any resultant risks of repair costs by means of mechanicalbreakage insurance. In practice, however, the repair costs will not always be handled by the insur ance so that there will always be a certain risk incurred by the operator. Correctly estimat ing this risk, in association with the provision of corresponding reserves, is of fundamental importance to the economic viability of a wind farm project (Chapt. 20). Before discuss ing the available experience in relation to this complex of problems, some important terms and basic relationships between the causes of damage must be explained. In principle, damage occurring in operation on a technical system is attributable to two different causes; Wrong assessment of the loads acting on the system, inadequate dimensioning of thecomponents or faulty interaction between the components in a complex system can lead to designrelated excessive loading of the material in a component. Such a sys tematic fault will cause damage or a fracture in every individual device of a series of the same type of construction. The insurance companies call this seriesproduct damage. They are not prepared to pay for the repair or the failure of a complete pro duction series.