The map from the European Wind Atlas (Fig. 13.11) shows an overview of the regional wind conditions in Europe. The dominance of regions with high wind speeds along the northern European coasts is obvious. However, there are also limited regions with high mean wind velocities in the Mediterranean area, for example in Spain, in Southern France and, above all, on the Greek Isles.;The wind resource maps of the European Wind Atlas show the mean annual windspeed at 50 m height, divided into five zones. In addition, the data for five roughness classes from open sea to protected terrain are specified. Moreover, the wind atlas specifies the mean specific annual energy content in watts per square meter rotorswept area.;A knowledge of certain parameters and physical laws is of particular importance if the energy of the wind is to be exploited. While the shortterm behaviour of the wind, the turbulence, is of significance with regard to the structural strength and the control func tion of a wind turbine, the longterm characteristics of the wind have relevance with regard to the energy yield. The longterm characteristics of the wind can only be deter mined by means of statistical surveys over many years. These data are then used for determining the energy yield of a wind turbine (Chapt. 14). At the same time, the dis cussion of these parameters presents a guide for procuring the required wind data for wind turbine siting.;13.4.1 Mean Annual Wind Speed and Wind Speed Frequency Distribution;The mean annual wind speed, understood to be the invariable longterm mean value of the wind speed at one location can only be determined on the basis of measurements taken over decades. Since there are not many reliable measurements available for peri ods longer than 30 years, the measurements are limited to this period. It is, therefore, quite possible that as the evaluating periods increase, the concepts of the longterm mean have to be revised (s. Chapt. 13.3.3). Furthermore it cannot be completely ex cluded, that the change of the climate will influence the longterm mean value. However