(Chapt. 7.1). The farther the centre of mass of the crosssection is moved back, the more critical the flutter characteristics will become, particularly in comparatively elastic wings or rotor blades. This hazard is designed to be countered by a spar box, called a Dspar because of its shape, which only comprises the nose area. In this design, the centre of mass is shifted as far as possible to the front. The highly elastic rotor blades of helicopters are usually designed with a Dspar box.;The development of fibrereinforced composite materials has been setting new impulses in aircraft engineering in the past decades. It was glider design engineers, above all others, who, for aerodynamic reasons, insisted on the highest quality surfaces and airfoil accuracy, who adopted these new materials. Moreover, the technique of laminat ing offered the possibility of manufacturing even without costly machinery. Fibre glass and increasingly carbonfibre reinforced sandwich designs are stateoftheart technolo gies in glider engineering today and the new materials are currently also making their entry into the loadbearing primary structures in the construction of large commercial aircraft.;The course of development and the associated design principles described by nomeans cover the entire spectrum of variations. In the thirties, i.e. at the beginning of modern aircraft engineering, a variety of the most varied design concepts existed. Some readers may recall the corrugated sheetmetal design of the legendary Junkers Ju 52 or the tubularspar design of the Blohm Voss flying boats.;The design concepts of aircraft wings are not necessarily the valid model for verysmall rotor blades of only a few meters length. For this size, semifinished airfoil parts of aluminium or solid wooden materials, patterned after aircraft propellers, can be used. The blades of earlier Darrieus rotors, for example, which had a comparatively shallow blade depth up to a power range of 100 or 200 kW, were frequently made from extruded aluminium airfoil sections (s. Fig. 8.5).;Moreover, rotor blades based on historical windmill models can be found in slowlyrotating small wind wheels such as those used for driving water pumps. Fabriccovered ribs as well as blades made entirely of wood or sheet metal are still in use for these purposes. Designs of this type are often suggested with reference to their application and to the production facilities available in developing countries of the Third World.;In the development and testing of the first large wind turbines, the search for a suitable rotor blade design presented a central problem. Many materials and designs were tried out. Although these experimental designs were not successful, it is useful to have a look at these technical solutions. It is frequently the case that an understanding of the