International Maritime Law. This legal situation results in the necessity that all national rules must be harmonised with the international maritime law. It goes far beyond the bounds of this book to explain in detail the resultant problem of legal principles or method steps.;From a pragmatic point of view, there is a tendency, at least in the Federal Republicof Germany, that the permission criteria applicable in national waters are also extended voluntarily to the exclusive economic zone. In other states bordering the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, this may be handled differently in detail. Some countries tend to allow a simplified licensing method in the exclusive economic zone. The discussion of this question is not yet finished by a long shot.;The application for a building and operation permission must be made with the usual project documents at the relevant authorities, depending on whether the site is within the territorial waters or outside the 12mile zone. The authorities will then ask the responsi ble offices and associations affected by the above criteria for a first comment. During the examination for environmental compatibility, the applicant has to obtain the re quired assessments and examinations by recognised persons or institutions. On the basis of this situation, the responsible authority will decide on the licence application and, if the decision is positive, will grant a building permit according to the valid building laws.;Unfortunately, this plain and brief description of the basic sequence of the proceduredoes not correspond to the real situation. Reality is characterized by a multiplicity of complex situations for which the scientific and sometimes also the legal foundations often do not yet exist or are at least contested. On this objective situation, a power struggle of the most varied associations of interest and persons with claims in the matter is superimposed. Against this background, licensing procedures lasting years and hav ing an uncertain end are the unavoidable consequence.;A detailed discussion of the problems underlying these licensing criteria will go farbeyond the bounds of this book. Instead, it is only possible to list the criteria for the licence in key words at this point but even this listing alone  the completeness of which cannot be guaranteed by the author  clearly shows the complexity of the basic consid erations used for arriving at decisions.