The Gedser wind turbine operated from 1957 to 1966, but then shared the fate of allother wind turbines of this period and was decommissioned. Remarkably, or possibly prudently, it was not disassembled. It was thus the only historical wind turbine which survived to see the renaissance of wind power technology after 1975. Following an agreement between Americas NASA and the Danish authorities, the Gedser wind turbine was recommissioned in 1977 and served as an experimental turbine for several years. The results obtained here, together with the technical documentation from the Htter W34 wind turbine, formed the starting point for NASAs research work in the field of wind power technology from 1975 onward.;In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Studiengesellschaft Windkraft e.V. (Soci;In the Federal Republic of Germany, the Studiengesellschaft Windkraft e.V. (Society for the Study of Wind Power) was founded in 1949. Ulrich Htter (Fig. 2.17), who had already distinguished himself with his papers on the theory of wind turbines in 1942, had a leading role in this. On behalf of the Allgaier Werkzeugbau GmbH in Uhingen, Germany, Htter initially designed a small wind turbine with a 10m rotor diameter and 8 to 10 kW rated power 18. About 90 units of this wind turbine were built and proved to be quite satisfactory. In 1958, Htter then started to develop a larger wind turbine, the W34, which was to have a rotor diameter of 34 m and a rated power of 100 kW. In 1958, the wind turbine was erected in Sttten (now Schnittlingen, near Stuttgart) in the Swabian Alb in Germany (Fig. 2.16). The technical concept of Htters W34 has been influencing wind turbine design in numerous features right to the present day. It was particularly the designers of the large experimental wind turbines which marked the first phase of modernday windenergy technology after 1975, who followed Htters ideas, some of them borrowing directly from the technical example of the W  34, in particular the large German experimental turbine Growian was designed after the example of the W34 (see Fig. 2.25).;Htter made the rotor blades of the aerodynamically refined, twobladed highspeedrotor of an advanced glassfibre composite material, a method which was later generally used, especially in glider construction. The rotor blades were joined to the rotor shaft via a teetering hub, which permitted teetering movements of the rotor to compensate for asymmetrical aerodynamic loads. The rotors teetering movements were damped aero dynamically by mechanically coupling the teetering angle to the bladepitch angle. With this teetering hub, Htter had found a more efficient way than Putnam who had intro duced the more complex, individual flapping hinges for the rotor blades and was forced to counter the full force of the flapping movement by means of hydraulic dampers (Chapt. 6.6.2).;In relation to its rotor diameter, the W34 had only a relatively lowrated generatorpower of 100 kW compared with most other wind turbines of this period. Htter aimed at utilising the relatively low average wind speeds in the interior of the country. More over, he gave high priority to a lightweight construction of the wind turbine, ideas which considerably influenced the design of the later German wind turbines after 1980.;The W34 was operated in the Swabian Alb in Germany from 1958 to 1968. However, compared to the ten year period, the number of operating hours was not very high. Also, the funds available for the project were so scarce that only rudimentary systematic measuring and testing could be carried out 19. In 1968, the wind turbine had to be dismantled as the lease for the land had expired.