In Germany, the economic conditions improved due to the Einspeisegesetz passedin 1990 and the subsidies, offered in the 250 MW Wind Programme, so that here, too, a market developed. This home market formed the basis of some mediumsized German companies which relatively successful developed wind turbines in competition to the Danish manufacturers and were able to sell a considerable number of units. Most other European countries also established subsidy programs in the late eighties. Increasingly, initiatives and subsidies by the Commission of the European Union supported research and application in the field of wind energy 26. Against this background, the number of wind turbines in Europe has increased rapidly since 1990.;The German Einspeisegesetz was replaced in 2000 by the Law Concerning the Priority of renewable Energy Sources (ErneuerbareEnergienGesetz (EEG)) 27 which again improved the economic conditions for the utilisation of wind energy. This law, which was confirmed in its essential points one year later by the Commission of the EU in spite of considerable opposition, also created the necessary legal basis for the financ ing of the investments. Similar laws were passed in other European countries so that, after Denmark and Germany, the basic economic conditions required for the utilisation of wind energy on a broad basis were also created first in Spain and then in Italy and recently also in France. The installation of wind turbines increased very rapidly in all of Europe.;They are based on the development until the year 2010. It goes without saying that these figures are obsolete in few years. But they indicate the dynamics of the various markets.;In the US, where the development has virtually come to standstill at the end of theeighties. But in the beginning of 2000 new fiscal incentives for the investors, but also the lack of electric energy in some regions stimulated the installation of new wind parks. In 2008, for example, more than 8000 MW have been installed in one year. On the other hand the market for wind turbines proved to be very fluctuating in the US. The tax incentives are granted for some years only and in succession a longsome political debate and procedure about followup subsidies causes uncertainties for the investors.;In the following years Asia experienced a dramatic growth. Including the Pacific region a cumulative capacity of nearly 60,000 MW has been achieved. China was by for the leading country with about 17,000 MW of new capacity in 2010. India saw an in crease of more than 2000 MW in 2010. The region as a whole accounted for more than 30  of the worldwide capacity. The wind power capacity installed worldwide was estimated to be about 200,000 MW at the end of 2010. The annual rate of additional installations was 35,000 MW. The highest growth rate has been reached in China, so that China will have the largest wind energy market in the near future (Table 16.19).;The report Wind Energy Development World Markets Update issued annually bythe Danish office BTM Consult contains comprehensive and carefully researched market analyses and forecasts. These statistics and forecasts form an important basis for planning by the wind energy industry 28.