Apart from the costs of maintenance and repair and the required insurances, there are other operating costs which must be considered in any complete operating cost calcula tion. These costs vary greatly in some cases and are operatorspecific which is why the figures below can only be reference values for average conditions. In particular this is true for the costs of administration and for the land lease.;Unless the operator does not own the land himself, a land lease must be paid for the site where the wind turbines are set up. In most cases this is agreed with the property owner, who usually runs a wind park, in the form of a secondary usage agreement. The prices for land use have steadily risen in recent years. They depend on the local circumstances, on wind turbine size and on the prevailing wind regime. For example in Germany at good sites close to the coast, the prices for site leases in 2010 were in the order of 68 of the revenue from the wind park operation. In other countries costs for the land lease are lower.;Basically, it would also be possible to purchase land for the installation of wind turbines. A simple rough estimate shows, however, that even with very low prices per squaremeter, a purchase does not make economic sense, unless the wind turbine opera tor himself arranges for further use of the remaining land, thus providing a second source of income.;In connection with the lease payments to the property owner, there are frequentlyalso payments to be made to the local community. The communities demand certain compensation payments for inconvenience during the construction phase or for the use of paths and roads during operation. It is not really possible to express these payments in figures but, as a rule, the costs are of such an order of magnitude that they do not put in question the viability of the projects.;Increasing commercialisation of windpower utilisation also yields profits for which taxes must be paid. Usually, a commercial wind park operator must pay tax on the profit gained. It is obviously not possible to indicate generally valid reference values here. However, the operator should understand clearly that considerable taxes will have to be paid, at the latest after his credits have been paid off.;The operation of a technical installation with an investment volume of more than one million dollars, whether it is only a simple onemegawatt turbine or, even more so, a large wind park, is not possible without a certain amount of administrative effort. Compiling financial balances and, in the case of commercial operating companies, de termining the distribution of dividend payments, external services such as tax and legal consulting etc. incur costs. Commercially organised windpark companies calculate about 1 to 2  of the annual revenue for this type of expense.