Heavy fibre glass rotor blades are mainly found in older Danish wind turbines. They consist of a wound spar with laminated contoured shells bonded to them. The matrix material used is the less expensive polyester resin. Compared to modern rotor blades the weight was very high, more than 2 kgm (see Fig. 8.27). When comparing weights, however, it must be taken into consideration that these blades in most cases have built in aerodynamic spoilers and that their rotor blade geometry is designed for relatively low tipspeed ratios.;Rotor blades of laminated fibre glass composites with polyester resin as the matrix ma terial are still widely used today. The laminating technique makes it possible to orientate the fibres in great lengths along the direction of the main loads, thus making full use of their tensile strength. Blades of this type are used for smaller and mediumsized tur bines. The blade geometry is dimensioned for medium to high tipspeed ratios. The specific weight fell down to less than 2 kgm. Seen overall, the fibre glasspolyester type of construction is in retreat and epoxy is being used increasingly also for relatively small turbines.;Danish and Dutch rotor blade manufacturers, coming from a long tradition of boat manufacturers, hesitated for a long time to use this more expensive and difficult to process resin for their standard products. The more recent rotor blades from LM or Vestas, however, are also manufactured in fibre glassepoxy design. Using the epoxy resin makes it possible to produce a lowweight blade connection to the rotor hub with out a heavy flange. As the size of the rotors increases, the weight advantage of up to 30 , which can be achieved in comparison with the polyester design, is too important to stay with the cheaper polyester. Fibre glassepoxy material combined with a light weight blade connecting structure represents the state of the art. The specific weight of these rotor blades, referred to the rotorswept area, is between 1.2 and 1.5 kgm for a rotor diameter of 70 m.;Using carbon fibres makes it possible to achieve rotor blades with extremely low weight. In some experimental turbines, rotor blades consisting mostly of carbon fibre were developed. Later on, the rotor blades were reinforced with carbon fibre only at the important locations, that is to say in the span direction (spar flanges) after the model of modern glider wings. Using this technology, a specific mass of close to 1 kg m rotor swept area can be achieved for the above mentioned reference rotor. Today, large rotor blades for rotors with a diameter of more than 70 or 80 m are almost always produced by using a certain proportion of carbon fibre. If only glass fibres are used, the stiffness requirements can only be met with a disproportionately large weight.