Several earlier American manufacturers also used this technology for the blades ontheir turbines (ESI, Enertec, Westinghouse, et al.). These manufacturers are no longer represented on the wind turbine market today so that the blade manufacturer Gougeon also no longer supplies rotor blades of this type for this reason or others. In Great Brit ain, the former Aerolaminates company had adopted this technology and was produc ing large rotor blades for NEG Micon, today merged with Vestas.;The wood composites type of construction had been considered for a time as a promising alternative to the fibrereinforced composite type of construction. Initially, its wider use was hampered by the fact that only a few manufacturers were capable of handling this very special technology. In the further course of events, however, most manufacturers also found that wood composites could not compete with the newer fibre glassepoxy designs at least as far as their weight was concerned.;Almost without exception, the rotor blades of presentday wind turbines are manufac tured of fibre composites. The main fibre material is glass fibre, carbon fibre being increasingly used as reinforcement at critical locations. The designs and production methods have largely been brought into line with each other but there are still differ ences which are quite significant with respect to quality and cost. A glance at the tech nologies available today, and at the closely associated production methods, will be of interest for this reason alone.;From a technological point of view, fibrereinforced composite material (GFRP) is a compound of synthetic resin and fibres. The fibres essentially absorb the stresses in the material whereas the resin handles the embedding of the fibres and the shaping. In prin ciple, there is a large variety of resins and fibres which can be combined. However, only a limited selection is of interest for highstrength lightweight structures.;The type of fibre material used is essentially responsible for the strength and the stiff ness properties of the composite material. Three different fibre materials are currently available   glass fibre  carbon fibre  organic aramide fibres (KEVLAR)  The properties of the fibre material determine the strength and the stiffness of the components, whereas the type of resin is important for the manufacturing process.