Extensive test programs were carried out on the experimental American MOD0 tur bine to investigate free rotor yawing 26. These tests confirmed that accurate, passive yawing could not to be achieved. The rotor reached two more or less stable positions at yaw angles of approximately 30 and 30. The authors of the published test results pointed out that the reasons could not be fully explained. The assumption was that the influence of the vertical wind shear was the decisive factor, another reason to conclude that large wind turbines cannot do without motorized yawing for the time being.;Even though this book primarily deals with horizontalaxis rotors, in accordance with the state of the art today, a small excursion into the aerodynamics of rotors with vertical axes of rotation is surely of interest. From an aerodynamic point of view, rotors with a vertical axis of rotation, which exist in numerous variations, have a number of aspects in common which distinguish them from the horizontalaxis type. While horizontalaxis rotors (with the exception of the singlebladed rotor) experi ence steadystate aerodynamic forces in a steady and uniform wind, this is not the case in a rotor with a vertical axis of rotation. Here the rotor blades rotate on a rotational surface the axis of which is at a right angle to the wind direction (Fig. 5.63).The aero dynamic angle of attack of the blades thus varies constantly during the rotation. More over, one blade moves on the downwind side of the other blade in the range of 1800 to 360 of rotational angle so that the wind speed in this area is already reduced due to the energy extracted by the upwind blades. Hence, power generation is less in the down wind sector of rotation. Consideration of the flow velocities and aerodynamic forces shows that, nevertheless, a torque is produced in this way which is caused by the lift forces A1 and A2. The braking torque of the drag forces Dl and D2 is much lower, by comparison. In one revolution, a single rotor blade generates a mean positive torque but there are also short sections with negative torque (Fig. 5.64). The calculated variation of the total torque also clearly shows the reduction in positive torque on the downwind side. The alternation of the torque with the revolution can be balanced with three rotor blades, to such an extent that the alternating variation becomes an increasing and decreasing torque which is positive throughout (Fig. 5.65). However, torque can only develop in a verticalaxis rotor if there is circumferential speed. In other words the verticalaxis rotor is not selfstarting. The qualitative discussion of the flow conditions at the verticalaxis rotor shows that the mathematical treatment must be more complex than with the propeller type. This means that the range of physical and mathematical models for calculating the generation of power and the loading is also wider. Various approaches, with a variety of weight ings of the parameters involved have been published in the literature 27, 28, 29. The results differ somewhat with respect to the power coefficients to be achieved. Most authors specify values of 0.40 to 0.42 for the maximum cPR for the Darrieus type of verticalaxis rotors. This is slightly lower than for the horizontalaxis rotor at a comparable tipspeed ratio and number of blades.