It is not possible to recognize beforehand which of the loads within the entirerange of loads will be dominant. As is the case in all structures, the larger the tur bine, the greater is the significance of the gravitational loads. Moreover, the elastic ity of the structure plays an increasing role with respect to the extent to which the external loads are transformed into structural stresses. For example, the speed vari ability of the rotor or the elasticity of the rotor blades are of significance for the extent to which the external loads are converted into structural stresses.;In other words apart from the external loads, the load level is also determined bythe design of the wind turbine. In general it holds true that the more elastic the structures are, the better alternating loads can be absorbed and thus material fatigue can be reduced, but on the extreme end, the flexibility of the structure causes vibra tion problems, and not lastly the mathematical effort increases with increasing elas ticity in the dimensional design of the structure.;Unfortunately, there is to the present day no legally binding standard for the position and orientation of the coordinates in which the load parameters are represented. The same also applies to the terms to be used for the parameters. In English usage, the des ignations used in IEC Standard 614001 have gained currency without being legally binding in the sense of a Standard 1. In German usage, many other terms are also commonly used and in the German edition of this book older German expressions are also used and their English equivalents are referred to only occasionally.;It would be confusing if one would try to put all the parameters and figures in onecommon coordinate system. Already the very different order of magnitude of the vari ous values speaks against it. Therefore to represent the loads on the rotor and the struc tural stresses, three coordinate systems are suitably used (Fig.6.2).;The forces and moments acting on the rotor blades are resolved in a rotating coordinate system with respect to the local rotor blade crosssection. In the direction of the airfoil chord, the chordwise component is obtained and perpendicularly to the airfoil chord it is the flapwise component. This approach is practical when the loads on the rotor blades themselves are considered.;The breakdown with respect to the plane of rotor rotation provides the tangentialforce components in the plane of rotation and the thrust components perpendicularly to the plane of rotation. These coordinates express the total forces and moments on the rotor when they are passed on to the remaining parts of the turbine in the form of loads. At the transition from the chordwise and flapwise directions of the blade to the tangen tial and thrust directions of the rotor, the local twist angle and the blade pitch angle must be taken into consideration.;A third system of coordinates has its origin at the tower base, in the case the windturbine is considered to be a building. In this coordinate system, the forces and mo ments acting on the tower and the foundation are shown, at least in Germany, in accor dance with the guidelines of the Deutsches Institut fr Bautechnik (German Institute for Structural Engineering) (DIBt) 2. The DIBt is attempting to introduce an adaptation to the IEC Standard in the more recent editions of its Guidelines.