18.5 COMMISSIONING 761the associated success criteria to be applied. Usually, a period of, for example, 250 hours (corresponding to about 10 days) is agreed. The criterion for success consists in that the turbine shall not be unavailable for more than, for example, 6 to 7 hours for technical reasons residing in the turbine itself. Or, the availability has to be in accor dance with the contractually defined technical availability, for example, 95 . It is in the operators own interest to check that the trial operation is successful so that this phase already requires the involvement of the operator with regard to the evaluation of the operating data.;It is common wisdom, and in the operators or, more precisely, the buyers own interest, to obtain an independent assessment of the technical status of the turbine before it is handed over. Faults in the assembly or defects in the turbine, for example any corrosion which may already have begun, can result in damage and thus expenses even after the warranty period has elapsed. For this reason, the operators ask recognised technical experts to assess the constructional condition of the wind turbines on behalf of the buyer. This can be a somewhat timeconsuming procedure in the case of large wind farms since every individual turbine must be inspected and assessed in detail. As a rule, this results in a socalled List of Defects containing all complaints still to be rectified by the manufacturer.;After the trial operation and the technical assessments by an independent expert, the Acceptance is agreed by the operator. The prerequisite for this is that the trial opera tion has been successful and that it is found that the wind turbine no longer has any significant defects. All facts relevant to operational reliability and safety and to the power generation are considered to be significant. Appropriate deadlines are agreed for eliminating the remaining defects in the list. Once the signature is at the bottom of the acceptance report, the wind turbine becomes the property of the operator (buyer). From the legal point of view, this means Passage of Title or, in other words Transfer of Benefits and Burdens. This handover to the operator is followed by the warranty period and regular operation under the responsibility of the operator.;The commissioning of a prototype or of a large experimental turbine is quite a different task from that of a commercial project based on previously developed and proven, series production units. Commissioning here includes not only the testing of the turbines basic functions but also the measuring of its detailed operational characteristics and perform ance data. Thus, the commissioning procedure evolves into a longer operating phase which can only be carried out in several stages. In the first stage, efforts will be made to check component functions as extensively as possible with the turbine at standstill. After this general checkout of the mechanical and electrical equipment, the wind