100 CHAPTER 5 ROTOR AERODYNAMICSwith his work on the development of the blade element theory and of the momentum theory 9. Lissaman based his work on his rotor model (blade element theory) and calculated the velocity profiles behind the rotor by using empirical values obtained from wind tunnel measurements. This resulted in a semiempirical calculation method which provides useful results. Lissaman also developed a qualitative concept of the develop ment of the shape of the wake behind the rotor (Fig. 5.11). The area close to the rotor, its core area, is determined by the process of pressure equalisation with the ambient air immediately behind the rotor and by the vortex wakes resulting from the flow around the rotor blades. The pressure compensation causes the rotor wake to widen. The point of minimum speed in the centre of the wake occurs at a distance of between one and two rotor diameters behind the rotor. In the transition region, considerable turbulence is generated in the boundary layer of the rotor wake and becomes mixed with the turbulence and higher wind velocity of the sur rounding airflow. As the distance becomes greater, the air speed rises more and more and the vortices generated by the rotor blades largely disappear. Further away in the wake in the far region, at a distance of about five rotor diameters, the velocity profile of the wake develops into a Gaussian distribution. The reduction in speed deficiency in the wake is large determined by the intensity of the turbulence in the surrounding air. The achievement of a qualitative understanding of the flow conditions in the rotor wake also provided the basis for the development of more sophisticated models for calculating the wake. In 1988, Ainslie presented a model which is based on the numeric solution of the Navier Stokes equations for the turbulent boundary layer and thus al ready closely approaches the physical situation given in the wake 10. The influence of the surrounding turbulence was introduced by Ainslie with an analytical formulation for the viscosity, i.e. the shearing forces transferred by the turbulence. A similar model was developed by Crespo with the special aim of determining the additional turbulence generated in the rotor wake 11 and he introduced a more accurate model of dissipation in the turbulent flow for this purpose.