15.3 SHADOW EFFECTS 623and was also recognized in the operation of traditional windmills. The frequencies that can cause disturbance are between 2.520 Hz. The effect on humans is similar to that caused by changes in intensity of an incandescent electric light due to variations in network voltage from a wind turbine (see Chapt. 18.5). In the case of shadow flicker the main concern is variations in light at frequencies of 2.53 Hz which have been shown to cause anomalous EEG (electroencephalogram) reaction in some, but very few cases.;In a study, conducted in 1999 for the State of SchleswigHolstein in Germany,shadow flicker was thoroughly investigated 15. The limit values recommended in this study were subsequently adopted by most Federal States as guide values for their licens ing procedures. Accordingly, the maximum permissible time that a shadow can be cast at an immission point is 30 hours annually or 30 minutes per day, respectively, based on the astronomically possible maximum period.;Since the evaluation of shadow flicker is one of the issues in the planning of windturbine siting, several computer codes have been developed. They are offered as com mercially available software packages, for example WindPro Shadow, or as special modules in WindFarm and GH Wind Farmer 17.;In the widely used WindPro software the basic mathematical model is based on theastronomically possible shadowcasting times (Fig. 15.12). The shadow cast is calcu lated in accordance with the solar altitude at one or more immission points. The model contains the following simplifications; The wind direction corresponds to the azimuth angle of the sun, i.e. the rotorswept; The wind direction corresponds to the azimuth angle of the sun, i.e. the rotorsweptarea is perpendicular to the solar irradiation.; A socalled occultation component of the sun with respect to the total rotorsweptarea is assumed. This is derived from a normal rotor blade chord, assumed to be constant, with a predetermined rotor diameter (assumed as 20 ). Given this as sumption, a shadow cast of 1.5 to 2 km is obtained for a large wind turbine.