It is generally when the rotor is parked that the wind turbine has to cope with the highest wind speed, the socalled survival wind speed. For turbines with pitch control it is as sumed that the rotor blades are in the feathered position and that the rotor is aligned with the wind. Under these conditions, the load level is much lower than under cross wind conditions. Naturally, the precondition for this is that the yawing system and the blade pitch control are functional when the survival wind speed occurs.;In the case of fixedblade small turbines, this problem does not occur. The strength ofthe turbine must be verified with rotor blades under crosswind conditions. The assump tion of a correct drag coefficient is of essential significance here. For blades subjected to a crosswind the cDvalues range from 1.3 to 1.8.;Some wind turbines, e.g. Enercon turbines, do not stop the rotor at extreme wind;Some wind turbines, e.g. Enercon turbines, do not stop the rotor at extreme windspeeds. The turbine continues to run with a particular blade pitch angle and at a reduced speed. In this state the loads on the turbine are no greater than with the rotor blocked. In addition, it considered to be an advantage that when the wind drops, the turbine can continue to run again at full power within a very short time without loss of energy due to cuttingin and cuttingout processes.;Technical faults and defects can subject the wind turbine to additional loads not covered by the other load cases. It can be assumed that most technical defects, in as much as they are relevant to operational reliability, lead to an emergency stop of the rotor via a safety system, so that these types of defects do not result in any extraordinary loads. On the other hand, some malfunctions are possible which cause abnormal loads on the structure before the rotor shuts down. These events must be recognised and included in the definition of load cases. Thus, a theoretical failure mode and effects analysis should be carried out for reliabilityrelated areas of operation, such as blade pitch control and the rotor brake systems, at least in larger turbines.;Most technical failures will trigger the rotor emergency stop via the safety circuit, but the abrupt deceleration of the rotor results in an extraordinary loading situation for the wind turbine. With large rotors and under certain circumstances, this situation can in crease the bending stress on the rotor blades up to the strength limit. In the case of a defect, for example a loss of the electrical system (generator release) or a fault in the control system, the rotor blades must be pitched very rapidly towards feathering to pre vent rotor runaway. For this, the blade is pitched so fast that, for a short period of time, the rotor blades are subjected to negative aerodynamic angles of attack. The aero dynamic thrust then acts in the opposite direction. If the rotor blades are positioned at a cone angle to each other, the bending moments from thrust and centrifugal force are superimposed in the same direction. Instead of compensating for each other as in normal operation, they add up with the consequence of an extreme bending moment on the