After World War I, Major Kurt Bilau tried to develop electricitygenerating wind turbines based on more advanced technical concepts. Bilau recognised that the American lowspeed rotor did not have the appropriate characteristics. His Ventimotor, with a fourbladed rotor and higher tipspeed ratio, was one of his first attempts. Bilau described his results in two books and thus contributed not inconsiderably to the idea of also utilising wind power for generating electricity in Germany 6. However, physics was not one of his strong points. In his second book, which was published in 1942, he still tried to prove that his Ventimotor, with its streamlined airfoils, could achieve a higher power coefficient than the maximum value of 0.593, which had been calculated by Betz in the meantime 7.;In Germany, however, the decisive impulse came from the theoretical camp. Againsta background of aircraft aerodynamics, the physicist Albert Betz, director of the Aero dynamische Versuchsanstalt (Aerodynamic Research Institute) in Gttingen, approached the problem of the wind rotors physics and aerodynamics from a strictly scientific point of view (Fig. 2.17). In an article published in the Zeitschrift fr das gesamte Turbinenwesen (Journal of Turbine Science) in 1920, he proved that the maximum physically possible utilisation of the wind by a diskshaped, turbinelike wind energy converter is restricted to 59.3  of the power contained in the air current 8. In his book Windenergie und ihre Ausnutzung durch Windmhlen, which was published in 1925, he summarised the results of his research and formulated a theoreti cal basis for the aerodynamic shaping of wind rotor blades 9. The theory has been was completed by H. Glauert shortly after Betzs publication and has kept its validity to the present day 10. This theoretical basis now permitted modern highspeed wind rotors to be calculated reliably. In addition to the principles of aerodynamics, advanced light weight design principles in aircraft engineering were also developed in the twenties which was also an important prerequisite for implementing large rotors.;One of the first to work with these new scientific findings was the steel constructionengineer Hermann Honnef who developed concepts for absolutely gigantic wind power plants (Fig. 2.6). Colossal lattice towers were to have carried up to five wind rotors, each with a diameter of 160 m and a power output of 20 000 kW. These wind rotors were to consist of two concentric contrarotating wheels. In order to provide the neces sary rigidity, the very slender rotor blades were configured as double spokes in the inner area. The two contrarotating rotors each bore a metal ring with a diameter of 121 m. These two contrarotating rings formed a socalled ring generator, with one ring acting as the pole ring and the other as armature ring. In cases of extreme wind speeds, the upper part of the lattice tower, which carried the rotors, was intended to tilt into an inclined position and eventually to a horizontal position.;In retrospect, it must be noted that Honnefs plans were indeed based on mathematical and engineering principles 11. Their realisation would, however, have most certainly caused considerably more problems than Honnef imagined in 1932. It is, there fore, less the technical concept which is fascinating about Honnefs plans but the idea in itself. Honnef wanted to utilise wind energy on a largescale technical basis. It was no longer the idea of supplying remote farms with electricity which inspired him, he wanted to build large wind power plants which were to generate electricity in combi nation with conventional power plants at an economical price. In this respect, Honnef was a pioneer of the large wind turbines.