Structurally, the rotor of a wind turbine consists of a number of subsystems. Based on the definition that the rotor comprises all rotating parts of the unit outside the nacelle, these subsystems are the rotor blades, the hub, and the blade pitch mechanism, all three of which are largely autonomous components with regard to their design, their operation and the manufacturing techniques used.;The rotor hub and the blade pitch mechanism represent traditional mechanical engineering. From a technological point of view and with regard to their operation, they are closely associated with the mechanical drive train. Depending on the design, the blade pitch system and its control system are only partly rotor components. Parts of this sys tem can be located in the nacelle. In any case, the blade pitch mechanism assembly represents the transition from the rotor to the wind turbines mechanical drive train. Rotor hub and blade pitch mechanism are, therefore, dealt with in the context of the mechanical drive train.;Rotor blade technology is associated more with lightweight aeronautical engineeringthan with conventional mechanical engineering. In contrast to all other components of the wind turbine, which can be largely adopted or at least derived from other fields of mechanical engineering, the rotor blades must be developed from scratch. Design prob lems are similar to the tasks faced by aircraft engineering. The load spectrum to be applied with respect to fatigue strength, and the mathematical methods for the dimen sioning of the structure, which is highly stressed dynamically, are both similar. The very tough load spectrum to which the rotor blades are subjected is one of the main reasons for the prominence given to this component in the design of the turbine. The bending moment due to the gravity load already results in up to 108 load cycle alternations within the lifetime of a turbine. In addition, there are the stochastic alternating loads caused by wind turbulence and the effects of ageing of the material due to the weather. The problems associated with durability of the rotor are thus far more difficult to solve than in any other component. What is true of development problems does not necessar ily apply to manufacturing, however. In this respect, borrowing from aircraft engineer ing is only possible to a limited extent because of the much narrower cost margin which prohibits the application of traditional aircraft manufacturing methods. The production