Like all complex technical installations, wind turbines must be commissioned before they can be handed over to the operator. In the context of this discussion, commission ing is the period from when the turbine has been installed to when it is handed over to become the operators exclusive responsibility. It thus goes beyond the actual technical process of taking the units into operation. The procedure is not without its problems from the legal point of view, either. To avoid later disputes, it is of importance to clearly define the individual phases and the associated results.;The commissioning of wind turbines, which usually forms part of the handover of a wind turbine to the operator, is a relatively long process requiring close cooperation between the manufacturer and the operator. The details of the procedure involved and of the criteria to be applied are in most cases regulated by a General Work Contract for the installation of the wind turbine. The purchase contract usually does not contain adequate regulations in this respect. An operator who is building a windpark would be well advised to negotiate corresponding additional agreements with the supplier of his turbines, in addition to his purchase contract. The commissioning process generally includes a number of separate phases.;The aim of commissioning tests is to demonstrate that the turbine is capable of a safe and continuous automatic operation. Most of the tests are included in the manufacturers standard commissioning procedures. Checking the assembly and activating the electrical and hydraulic units and the electronics systems after the wind turbine has been erected is entirely the manufacturers responsibility. Test reports of the checks made are pro duced and handed to the operator. After a successful conclusion of these tests, the instal lation is released for operation by the manufacturer. The operator should be notified in writing of the beginning of trial operations.;For larger projects, for example large offshore wind parks, it can be agreed that afterthe commissioning procedures performed by the manufacturer an extra commissioning demonstration has to be performed in front of the customer. This procedure should include a running test over a certain period and the demonstration of the safety func tions, rotor stop at critical operational conditions, grid loss or the vibration levels. The agreement also can include the validation of the power curve by measuring at least several points.