The largest manufacturer by far is the Danish company LM Glasfiber AS whicharose from a onetime shipyard. In addition, there is a number of smaller manufacturers in several countries, such as, for example, SINOI, Euros or Abeking  Rasmussen in Germany. In the developing countries like China an increasing number of manufacturers are producing rotor blades.;If there are gearboxes in the wind turbines, they are exclusively supplied by special gearbox manufacturers. The German mechanical engineering industry is traditionally well represented in this field. Gearboxes by Winenergy (Renk), Flender, Lohmann  Stolterfoht, Hansen and others can be found in numerous German and other wind tur bines. In recent years, the gearbox industry has considerably contributed to the reliabil ity and service life of wind turbines with the development of special gearboxes which had been adapted to meet the high demands of use in wind turbines (s.a. Chapt. 8.8 and 18.9).;In the past, the limited life of roller bearings for mounting the rotor blades, the rotor shaft or the bearings in the gearbox and generator has caused a great deal of damage and costs in wind turbines (s.a. Chapt. 18.9). The bearing industry has made great efforts in recent years to optimize the quality of the bearings and, together with the turbine manu facturers, to develop bearing designs which meet the extraordinarily high demands made on them in a wind turbine.;The development of costeffective and efficient, variablespeed generatorinverter sys tems is to a large extent a result of demands from the wind turbine manufacturing indus try. The electrical companies have had to perform pioneering work in this field, from which not only the wind energy technology but also other applications have benefitted. In recent times, the relevant electrical industry has also shown an increasing interest in gearless multipole generator systems based, in particular, on permanent magnets.;The control and operational monitoring systems had initially been developed and sup plied by manufacturerindependent subcontractors, for example by Mita or Dancontrol in Denmark. In some cases, socalled programmable logic control systems from power station engineering were also used for controlling wind turbines (for example from Siemens).