In some cases it is noticeable that the overall mass of some existing towers differsconsiderably from the calculated values. The reasons for this are differently chosen relations of rotor diameter to tower height, but also a more weightoptimised geometry. For example, a conical tower base will increase stiffness or, respectively, decrease the tower mass for a given stiffness. The same effect is achieved with a tapered change in wall thickness. The masses of finished towers will, therefore, be sometimes less than the calculated masses in the diagrams of Figures 12.9 and 12.10.;On the other hand, the tower height is much greater in relation to the rotor diameter,particularly at inland sites. The more recent wind turbines are offered with different tower heights of up to 1.5 times the rotor diameter. In these cases, the specific tower mass be comes very much higher than calculated in the model above.;Almost without exception, the towers of the large turbines of today have a conical shape, with a diameter that diminishes from the base up to the tower head. Compared with a cylindrical geometry, this saves weight for a given required stiffness (see Chapter 12.9). In nearly all cases the towers are produced and assembled in several sections. But there are also towers manufactured in one piece if the transportation and site conditions allow this.;The towers consist of a number of prefabricated sections with a length of up to about 30 m. The sections are produced from sheets of steel plate with a thickness of 1050 mm. The sheets, which have a width of about 2 m, are rolled into a circular shape on a rolling stand (Fig. 12.11). From these segments, the tower section is welded together. In most cases, automatic welders are used for this. The welding requires special attention in view of the loading situation of the tower. The quality is checked by means of the usual methods such as ultrasonics, Xrays and examination for surface cracks. The tower sheets consist of commercially available St52 grade structural steel plate and, more rarely, St48. Higherstrength material is used for most of the forged joining flanges and the foundation section.;At the ends of each tower section, the internal flanges are welded on (Fig. 12.12). Theyconsist of highstrength steel and occasionally of forged steel. Shaping and welding of the flanges requires some experience since the components can easily become distorted, the consequence being that the flanges will not match during the assembly. The resultant gaps between the tower sections are a quality defect frequently found in tubularsteel towers (Fig. 12.13).;In most cases, the tower is joined to the foundation by means of a socalled foundation section. This is manufactured separately and incorporated in the foundation when the concrete is poured (Fig. 12.14).;The tower is joined to the nacelle via the azimuth flange. It accommodates the azimuth bearing if a roller bearing is used. The azimuth flange is often a cast part.