Although it is true that a speed elasticity of 2 to 3  is sufficient to distinctly reduce the dynamic loads, this is insufficient to obtain speed variability in the sense of a wind oriented operation. Based on the background discussed in Chapter 14, completely windoriented operation requires a speed range of approximately 40 to 100  of the maximum speed. A speed range of this extent can only be achieved with a variable speed generator and an inverter. However, the inverter costs and decreasing efficiency are factors to be considered.;Apart from controlling power output by blade pitching, it is also desirable to have a second control capability on the electrical side. If it is possible to influence the genera tor torque, a variablespeed mode of operation of the rotor can be implemented in paral lel grid operation. This will relieve the comparatively inert aerodynamic blade pitch control and thus improve the overall control characteristics of the turbine. The con trolled variablespeed generator inverter systems almost completely smooth out the electrical power output within the given speed limits (Chapt. 6.6.4).;The reactivepower requirement of the generator system is a central issue primarily in isolated operation, preventing the use of an induction generator. But also in parallelgrid operation the reactive power characteristics cannot be left out of consideration, at least in the case of large turbines or of a large number of turbines. The public utilities charge high fees for supplying reactive power from the grid. With induction generators the reactivepower consumption must be compensated for by connecting capacitors. In synchronous generators the power factor cos , i.e. the reactive power, can be con trolled by regulating the voltage at the terminals. Apart from the higher efficiency, this is an important advantage. In the case of generator systems with inverter, the reactive power requirement of the inverter must be taken into consideration, but the cos  can be influenced by the inverter.;Even drawing reactive power from the grid represents an undesirable perturbation. Fur thermore, other interferences with the grid must be noted. Among them are high starting currents when an induction generator is connected, or harmonics in the current fed into the grid. Harmonics such as these can be generated to a small extent by the generator itself, but to a much larger extent they are associated with the use of static converters. The higherfrequency waves can interfere with the ripple control systems in the inter connected grids. However, they can be filtered out more easily than lowfrequency oscillations. The harmonics load on the grid was an assessment criterion at least for