192 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSESextreme wind speeds to be assumed and the average wind speed at the site, and by the turbulence intensity. The extreme wind speeds are aimed at ensuring that adequate break ing strength and stability is provided whilst the average wind speed is of importance for the service strength, i.e. the fatigue strength, of the material. In this context, a design life of at least twenty years must be used as a basis.;A socalled reference wind velocity is used for identifying the different classes. This isthe maximum wind speed which, seen statistically, is exceeded only once in 50 years and is measured as a tenminute mean value. The shortterm extreme wind speeds within a 3second period, i.e. the maximum gusts to be expected, are derived from this value. The wind turbulence is assumed to be characterised in two categories A and B. The standard deviation of the longitudinal wind velocity change in the 10minute mean values is speci fied by the parameter  (Table 6.18). Apart from these four classes, there is also a special class S for special site conditions. The values to be assumed in this class must be agreed individually with the licencing authorities. In addition, the Germanische Lloyd has defined a new Offshore class which has been adopted by the IEC 12.;Table 6.18. WTGS Classes to IEC 641001;It should be pointed out that in conjunction with the IEC Standard, the indices definedthere are used for identifying the parameters. Otherwise, the older indices still in common use in Germany and used in the other chapters would have to be continuously compared with the designations of the IEC Standard and confusion is preprogrammed.;There is another special feature to be noted in Germany which, although it is of noimportance internationally, will still play a role in Germany for the foreseeable future. The Deutsches Institut fr Bautechnik has also introduced a classification in its Guide lines for Wind Turbines which contain the socalled Proof of Safety for tower and foun dation 2. The wind conditions are graded into socalled Wind Zones. The proof of stability is, therefore, checked in accordance with the defined wind zones as part of the building permit procedure. On the other hand, the manufacturers of wind turbines al most exclusively use the IEC classes as a basis for the technical engineering part. For