Large power plant generators are synchronous generators. It is only in connection with smaller hydroelectric turbines that induction generators are occasionally used. For wind turbines, on the other hand, the induction generator is a suitable type of generator, the reasons for which will be discussed later. A look at its basic characteristics is, therefore, indispensable.;For a start, an important fact for operating an induction machine in generator mode isthat the rotor must be supplied with a magnetizing current for generating and maintain ing its magnetic field. This socalled reactivepower demand depends on active power. In parallel grid operation, the reactive power can be taken from the grid. In isolated operation, power factor compensation must be provided in the form of capacitors.;For two pole pairs, frequently used, a synchronous speed of 1500 r.p.m. is obtained at f  50 Hz, whereas a 60 Hz grid as in the US requires a generator speed of 1800 r.p.m. In motor operation, the mechanical rotor speed is a few percent below this value and in generator operation a few percent above it, due to the slip. The slip s is;The torque of the asynchronous machine is a function of the slip. Accordingly, its torque characteristic is specified in dependence on the slip (Fig. 10.9). When the slip is s  0 and s  , the machine does not produce torque, or cannot absorb torque, respec tively. In between, the torque exhibits a maximum, the socalled pullout torque. Ac cording to VDE 0530, the ratio between pullout torque TP and rated torque TR must be at least 1.6 in grid operation.;The electrical efficiency of induction generators is a function of the nominal slip. Inlarger turbines in the megawatt range, the nominal slip is below 1  (Fig. 10.10). The associated efficiency of approximately 96 to 97  is not much lower than in a compara ble synchronous generator. Due to the absorption of reactive current from the grid, the power factor cos  is comparatively low and amounts to approximately 0.87 to 0.90.