Table 16.19. The ten most important markets for wind turbines in 2010 28;Although wind turbines for generating power have been manufactured for more than 100 years, one could not speak of a wind turbine industry until about 25 years ago. The historic turbines were unique items which were made either by enthusiasts, or also by larger industrial companies in individual cases. It was only in Denmark where small beginnings of a somewhat larger wind turbine production developed in the nineteen twenties and thirties (s.a. Chapt. 2.7).;After the muchquoted energy crisis in 1973, research and development activity inthe field of wind energy technology began throughout the world (s.a. Chapt. 2.6). The development was largely carried by the industrial and technological concerns since these companies had the best access to the governmental subsidies. It has been assumed that the market for wind turbines would be in the hands of the traditional electricity supply undertakings but these did not display any inclination to purchase wind turbines, because of the remoteness of any cost effectiveness at that time, but not only for this reason. When then the governmental subsidies also ran dry, the large companies lost interest in these products. It is a noteworthy fact that the large concerns, with names such as MBB (now EADS), MAN, Dornier in Germany or Boeing, Westinghouse and others in the US, could not gain any access to a market which was actually evolving at the beginning of the nineteeneighties. (The author of this present book, who himself attempted to participate in the development of this phase of wind energy technology, could mention a large number of reasons for this.);The emergence of a market outlet for wind turbines among private consumers andinvestors was first utilized by small Danish companies which mainly produce agricul tural machines. They had the right access to these customers. The first wind turbines then carried names such as Vestas, Bonus, Nordtank, Micon, Nordex, Windworld and