The operating cycle begins with checking the operational status of the most important systems and components. In large turbines a great number of parameters like voltage, temperature and pressure values are checked. Also the grid status has to be verified before the turbine will start. If no faults are indicated in the system check state, a signal will indicate that the turbine is ready for further progress in the operational cycle.;If the system check was positive, the yaw system is activated, the rotor still being braked. The turbine is yawed to the wind direction within the permissible limits and it is checked whether the wind speed is within the operating range of 5 to 25 ms, for example.;Startup begins with pitching of the rotor blades into the starting position (bladepitch angle approximately 60 degrees). Following this, the mechanical rotor brake is re leased. The rotor starts to turn.;When running up to nominal speed, the rotor speed is accelerated up to the synchroni zation speed of the generator, corresponding to 90  of the nominal speed. The blade pitch angle is controlled in accordance with a preset speed variation. Synchronization of the generator with the grid frequency occurs within the speed range of from 85  to 95  of the nominal speed.;Once the connection of the generator to the grid has been established, the turbine be gins to output power into the grid. Depending on the existing wind speed, a distinction is made between partial and full load.;12 to 15 ms. Under these conditions, the pitch angle of the blades is set to a fixed value in the simplest way. As much power is extracted from the wind as is possible on the basis of the rotor power characteristics at the fixed blade pitch angle set, which is close to the optimum for this range of wind speeds (Chapt. 14.1.1). More recent control systems operate with a number of blade pitch angles at partial load.;The blade pitch angle is then controlled in such a manner that the rated power, which at the same time is the highest permissible continuous output of the generator, is not ex ceeded. The transitions between partial load and full load operation and the associated other control undertakings are performed automatically by the sequence control and do not require any intervention from outside.