A group of experts of the International Energy Association (IEA) developed recom mendations for the definition and testing of the power curve back in the nineteen eighties 2. These have been improved continuously in subsequent years and were then adopted in a Guideline of the IEC 3. This Guideline  IEC 63400121  is generally accepted as the binding basis for the definition and measuring of the power curve. Ac cordingly, the shape of the power curve is characterised by following key elements relating power output to wind speed (Fig. 14.10); The cutin velocity ci is the wind speed where the turbine starts to deliver power. Inother words, the rotor must already be delivering enough power to compensate for the power loss in the drive train and to cover internal consumption.; The rated wind velocity R is the wind speed at which the rated generator power isreached. The latter is identical with the permanently permissible maximum genera tor power output. In practice, it is not possible to determine the rated wind speed very precisely. Due to the wind turbulence and characteristics of the blade pitch control, the power curve shows a more or less marked rounding as it nears the rated power (Fig. 14.10).; Power is understood to be the net power. It is the electric power output minus allpower losses caused by the turbines internal consumption. The power line trans former is the only element left out of the equation, as it is not a turbinespecific element but depends on the conditions on the site. In wind turbines in which the in termediatevoltage transformer is an integrated component of the electrical system, this must be correspondingly taken into consideration.;5450 (air density 1.225 kgm at MSL, temperature 15 C). The air density, and thus the temperature and the altitude, influence the power output.;The measurement campaigns have to be performed within a range of specified properties of the measuring site. The IEC standard mentions several parameters, for example the turbulence intensity, the shear wind exponent, the cross wind and some others which must not exceed the specified range. Against this background it becomes clear that the measured power curve has to be understood as measured performance of the wind turbine under standardised measuring conditions. It is not identical with the wind tur bine performance on a specific site if the topography of the site or the wind regime differs significantly. In the following chapters the influence of site specific conditions will be discussed in more detail.;However a measured power curve even measured under standardised conditions is toa certain degree a site specific performance test. Not all the parameters influencing the power curve are covered by the IEC regulations. Furthermore the individual wind tur bines of a series production show some variations in their power curve. Against this background some leading manufacturers base their warranty upon a calculated power curve. This power curve is based on the theoretical power curve and considers