The size of the wind turbines also has an influence on the specific costs (s.a. Chapt.;19.1.2). The tower height, in particular, must be taken into consideration. The trend is towards high towers, especially inland with weaker wind conditions. The specific costs per megawatt thus rise but also the energy delivery.;It has to be noted that the costs are also affected by the organisational concept of project execution. Large wind parks are in most cases developed and built by commercial specialpurpose companies. These companies develop the project, construct and oper ate the wind park or they act as general contractors and sell shares in the project to insti tutional or private investors (s. Chapt. 20.1). Therefore, the soft costs for planning, financing, warranties and liabilities are high. This expenditure is reflected in the invest ment and operating costs. Where the projects are implemented by institutional investors or utilities, the financing costs and also some other costs are considerably lower.;In contrast to these professionally managed largescale projects, there are numeroussmaller wind parks which are built and operated by local private initiators. These pro jects are realised with a lot of personal commitment and without counting and account ing for every working hour. Thus, the cost structure of such projects is much more favourable.;Naturally, there are also countryrelated differences in the costs. There are differencesbetween the Euro payment area and the Dollar area. In the main, however, there are rela tively great differences with respect to the lowcost countries. Assuming a purchasing power parity of about 1.15 from Euro to Dollar (the overall purchasing power parity is estimated as between 1.15 and 1.20 by economists), the specific costs for turnkey installed wind parks were, for example, in 20092010.;1250 to 1400 kW for example Spain The costs are not exactly comparable in every case. Thus, in India, for example, the customs regarding the allocation of costs are often quite intransparent so that a precise comparison using the reference values provided is not always possible. In Germany, extremely high towers are used in some cases due to the increased inland installation of wind turbines so that the specific costs per Megawatt are relatively high for that reason alone.;Wind turbines do not consume any fuel, but neither can they work completely without operating costs. Maintenance and repairs, insurance and several other expenses cause recurring operating costs. With some reservations, the level of these expenses can be