Wind turbines suitable for offshore installation differ from the usual landbased units in a number of technical equipment features (s.a. Chapt. 17.1.1). In addition the require ments for reliability and service life under aggravated conditions are also factors which increase the costs. This is contrasted by the fact that in the case of an offshore installa tion the tower can be less high. Because of the different vertical profile of the wind velocity, the same energy yield is achieved as with higher rotor hub heights on land. The comparatively low tower heights reduce the costs in comparison with inland instal lations. Looked at overall, the production costs of offshore installations are thus not significantly higher than those of landbased installations.;However, there is another aspect which must not be left out of consideration. The development costs for offshoreadapted turbines and components expended by the manu facturers and supply companies are much higher. To this is added that the industrial manufacturers must accept a much higher risk for guarantees and service in the offshore domain. This expenditure must lastly be accommodated by industry in the sales price of the turbines. It is especially under this aspect that the sales prices for offshore turbines will have to be higher than for normal turbines.;The evolving market for offshore installations will show of what order of magnitude thisadditional price will be. The turbines erected to the present day, all of which more or less still have the character of pilot installations, do not yet provide any reliable relevant informa tion. To this is added that the turbines of the 5MW class intended for most of the offshore sites remote from the coast, have not yet reached their marketoriented development stage with regard to their manufacturing costs (s.a. Chapt. 19.1.11). From the current point of view, the costs of wind turbines for offshore use are assumed to comprise sales prices which are about 1013  higher in comparison with landbased units 5.;The main factor for the higher investment costs are the costs for the structure of the foundation in the sea, the offshore foundation. The costs are the result of the manufac turing costs for the structure itself, on the one hand, but are of almost identical magni tude for the expensive transportation to the installation site and the complicated erection process with the required ships and lifting tools. Naturally, both these cost components are dependent on the depth of the water, less on the distance from land. In extreme cases, i.e. at water depths greater than 40 m, the costs for the foundation structure can be of the same magnitude as those for the wind turbine itself.;The transfer of electricity to the shore is the second significant factor in the higher in vestment costs in comparison with an installation on land. Some of the offshore projects planned today in the area of the North Sea are located at a distance of more than 100 km from the shore (s.a. Chapt. 17.4). Under these circumstances, the costs for the subma rine cable represent a considerable proportion of the investment costs.