826 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSplan (landschaftspflegerischer Begleitplan) must be worked out (according to BIMSCH) in which the measures are specified in detail. The licensing authorities demand expendi tures to the amount of some percentage of the investment costs of the building project for these compensation measures.;The preparation and erection of a large wind park require professional management. Depending on the construction time involved  the erection of the turbines themselves is in the responsibility of the manufacturing company  corresponding personnel costs must be taken into consideration for the construction management personnel.;As a rule, lease payments to the property owner are agreed at the beginning of the con struction project. For this reason, costs for lease payments are also already incurred as part of the investment costs.;The interest for bridging loans during the building phase until the project yields its first income is de facto part of the investment. With larger wind parks it takes about one year from the time when the first payments have to be made to the time of commissioning.;Furthermore it might be necessary to prefinance the legally required valueaddedtax. Depending on the time when the tax authority pays back the expenditures a financ ing gap of up to one year is thus created. The prefinancing of the valueadded tax also can be considered as financing costs, therefore they would appear in this category of the project budget.;19.3.6 Selected Examples for TurnKey Costs;The total investment costs for turnkey installations can only be illustrated by three typical examples. The examples were selected such that both typical applications and the currently common range of plant costs are illustrated. The basis is the exworks price of the wind turbine. The remaining cost proportions are indicated in percent of the exworks price.;The installation of a single small wind turbine in a power range of about 20 to 30 kW by a private consumer requires comparatively low siterelated expenses. The prerequisite for this is that the grid connection can be carried out without extensive modification of the electrical house installation and that there are no expenses for the land (Table 19.20). On the other hand the specific price for such a small wind turbine is very high (1500  2000 USkW).