Nevertheless, the pessimists did not win the day. Wind farms continued to be built,albeit at a somewhat slower rate. It was especially the undertakings which were rea sonably well off and had longterm supply contracts with the utilities which survived the loss of the tax credits. The manufacturers of the wind turbines also played a role in the survival of the wind farms. Producing new and larger units, which were offered at much lower specific costs than the first series, they created the prerequisites for power generation costs which approach economic viability even without tax advantages for the investors so that those wind farms which were well organised survived.;In the late nineties, however, after more than fifteen years, many wind farms in California had left an impression which was rather depressing. Due to the further deteriora tion in the economic background conditions at the beginning of the nineteennineties, all development had come to a virtual standstill. No new wind farms were being built and those still in existence were hopelessly outdated.;It was not until after the year 2000 that the utilisation of wind energy was rediscovered in the US. Rising oil prices and an increasing shortfall of available power due to the construction of new power stations having been neglected reawakened a general interest in wind power. In Europe, in the meantime, developments had progressed far and much larger and more reliable wind turbine systems were available. In addition, taxation stimuli for investments in renewable energies were promised again, after al most 10 years of restrictive fiscal policies. The number of new wind turbines rose again slowly initially, and then quickly, and was no longer restricted only to California as in the eighties. In 2007, almost 5000 MW of wind power was newly installed. Considering this rate of growth, the US are well on the way to become a leading country of wind power utilisation again.;1. Golding, E.W. The Generation of Electricity by Wind Power. E.  F.N. Spon Ltd. New York (1977) 2. Hansen, H.C. Forsgsmllen in Askov. Dansk Udysyns Forlag (1981) 3. La Cour Forsgsmllen. Det Nordiskke Forlag, Kopenhagen (1900) 4. Stein, D. Windkraftanlagen in Dnemark, RAWDenkschrift 4, Berlin (1942) 5. Westh, C. Experiences with the F.L. Smidth Aeromotors. In 6th IEA Expert Meeting LSWECS, Aalborg (1981) 6. Bilau, K. Die Windkraft in Theorie und Praxis. Paul Parey Verlag, Berlin (1927) 7. Bilau, K. Die Windausnutzung fr die Krafterzeugung, 2nd edn. 1942. Paul Parey Verlag, Leipzig (1933) 8. Betz, A. Das Maximum der theoretisch mglichen Ausnutzung des Windes durch Windmotoren, Zeitschrift fr das gesamte Turbinenwesen (September 20, 1920) 9. Betz, A. Windenergie und ihre Ausnutzung durch Windmhlen, Vandenhoekk and Rupprecht, Gttingen (1926) 10. Glauert, H. Windmills and Fans. In Duraud, F.W. (ed.) Aerodynamic Theory. Julius Springer, Berlin (1935) 11. Honnef, H. Windkraftwerke. Vieweg  Sohn, Brunswick (1932)