572 CHAPTER 14 POWER OUTPUT AND ENERGY YIELDtowards higher wind velocities (Fig. 14.18). Shifting the power curve towards higher wind velocities, in turn, influences the optimum rotor speed with respect to energy yield so that in the case of relatively large displacements in the power curve, the rotor speed must also be corrected to achieve optimum adaptation to the site elevation. In the exam ple of Figure 14.17 with an altitude of 600 m, the above adaptations have the following influence on the energy yield  Energy yield at mean sea level 100 ;These numbers show clearly that a calculation of the energy yield without correcting for the air density at 600 m altitude leads to a not inconsiderable overestimation of the amount of power to be expected. Correct application of the air density has such a great influence on the energy yield that it pays for the costs of the technical correction meas ures taken. While on this subject, the differences in air density between summer and winter must also be taken into consideration, especially in hot countries. In turbines with fixed blade pitch angle, there is no possibility for adapting the blade pitch angle to winter or summer operation so that this, too, is associated with certain power losses, either in summer or in winter. Better adaptation is only possible with active stall control (Chapt. 5.5.3).;In turbines with blade pitch control, the influence of the decrease in air density with increasing site elevation is not as severe as in the case of stallcontrolled turbines. In the full load range, the only reference value for the control system is the electrical power so that there is no power deficit in this range. In the partialload range, the power curve initially decreases in proportion to the air density as with a stallcontrolled turbine. The point of rated power shifts towards a higher wind speed (Fig. 14.18). An approximate correction is given by the formula;The blade pitch angle can be adapted without technical modifications, which also ap plies to the rotor speed since almost all new bladepitch controlled turbines can be oper ated at variable rotor speed. Thus, bladepitch controlled turbines suffer some loss in energy yield with increase in site elevation but can be operated lossless optimally with blade pitch angles corrected for changing temperatures. Assuming an average wind regime the energy loss can be expected at   0 m 100   500 m 98   1000 m 95 