The slip of gridcoupled induction generators is the reason why the grid does not exert a reversing spring force on the drive train, but merely a damping force. The zeroth natu ral frequency resulting from these conditions is the total rotation of the drive train corresponding to the rotational generator speed, with a zero vibrational frequency. In contrast to the synchronous generator with direct grid coupling, the natural frequencies are not or only slightly dependent on power.;When idling or in isolated operation, both generator types behave in the same way. The 0th natural frequency is again the total rotation with zero vibrational frequency. At the first natural frequency, the drive train vibrates around its largest mass, the rotor blades, whereas the second mode includes the vibration of the partial mass next in size. As already mentioned in Chapter 7.2.3, the eigenmodes of the drive train can be influenced by the chordwise bending characteristics of the rotor blades. In very large units, the first natural chordwise bending frequency of the rotor blades is often located close to the first natural torsional frequency of the drive train. This results in a coupling so that it is no longer permissible to consider the drive train in isolation, assuming that the rotor blades are rigid. Calculating the coupled vibrational behaviour then becomes much more com plicated since aerodynamic characteristics also play a role.;In the second step, the dynamic responses to various sources of excitations can be ex amined on the basis of the results of the modal analysis, and hazardous resonance points can then be identified. The excitation of vibrations in the drive train of a wind turbine can have its origin in many areas External excitations can affect the drive train by way of the rotor. This applies mainly to cyclically alternating forces (Chapt. 6.2);The external excitations occur with multiples of the rotor speed and are therefore char acterised by 1 P, 2 P etc. (Chapt. 7.1). On the generator side, attention has to be paid to the following