The active yaw system, with servocontrolled yaw drives and a number of yawbrakes, can be controlled more precisely and is, above all, protected from resonances by having the brakes applied when it is in the standstill position. The risk of resonance is, therefore, restricted to the yaw movement. During yawing, however, there is still a risk of an inadmissible vibration. In this condition, the yaw systems natural frequencies must, therefore, be taken into consideration.;When speaking of the vibrational behaviour of the turbine as a whole, this refers primar ily to the vibrational coupling between the rotor and the tower. The rotortower system is continuously subject to the risk of selfexcitation (s.a. Fig. 7.1).;The natural frequencies of the tower are here the natural frequencies of tower plushead mass. In the usual tower designs there is a risk that the first natural bending fre quency of the tower will resonate with the vibrationexciting rotor forces. The position of the first natural bending frequency of the tower in relation to the exciting frequencies from the rotor is, therefore, a decisive criterion for the vibrational behaviour of the wind turbine system.;The towers first natural bending frequency must not under any circumstances coincide with the critical exciting forces. Moreover, care must be taken to ensure that a certain distance from the remaining multiples of the rotor frequency is maintained. This dis tance cannot be generally specified. The distances between frequencies at which exces sive vibrations will occur are determined by system damping, i.e. both structural as well as aerodynamic damping. Experience from existing turbines indicates that a safety dis tance of at least 10  from the dominant frequency of excitation is a good guide value.;It has become accepted practice to designate the tower as being stiff or soft corresponding to the position of the towers first natural bending frequency relative to the dominant excitation frequency of the rotor (s. Figs. 7.19 and 7.20). In a tower of stiff design, the natural tower frequency is not encountered during the startup or shutdown procedures, thus eliminating the resonance hazard. Conversely, this encounter prob lem with a risk of resonance does exist in the soft tower. In some cases, the tower stiff ness (first natural tower bending frequency) is set below the 1P exciting force. This case is occasionally referred to as the double soft or softsoft design. However, tower torsion must not be entirely disregarded, either, even if in most towers the first natural torsion frequency is distinctly higher than the first bending frequency. Above all, it is the yaw moment of the twobladed rotor, which has already been mentioned nu merous times, which can excite a torsional vibration in the tower. As far as vibrations are concerned, a turbine with a hingeless rotor and flexible tower design would, therefore, be an extremely hazardous concept. In the teetering rotor, the rotor yaw and pitch moments are largely decoupled from tower torsion or bending, thus permitting a less stiff and hence more costeffective tower design to be realised.