The task of the operational sequence control system of a wind turbine is to bring the wind turbine from one operational state to another. It must permit fully automatic opera tion, it must recognize hazards and activate the safety systems and it must be able to execute special instructions by the operator. In this respect it acts as replacement for the nonexistent operating personnel. In this context, the safety system assumes a special position. It operates autonomously which is why, strictly speaking, it is not a part of the operational sequence control system. These tasks require an allsystem data acquisition, and supervisory system with numerous contact points to almost all components of the turbine itself and its peripheral technical systems. The most important subtasks can be described as follows; Acquisition of the input data necessary for controlling the operating sequence. Thisincludes wind speed and wind direction and sometimes also information on the state of the grid to be fed, for example the currently allowed power input into the grid or the connection of different loads (load management).; Control of the operating sequence in automatic mode, and manual operation forspecial cases, i.e. maintenance work.; Activation of the safety and emergency systems. The emergency shutdown of therotor is of primary importance here. The sequence controller should guarantee that these ultimate safety mechanisms act as directly as possible, without the elec tronic control system.; Adaptation to the operating conditions. Not least, the operation management of aturbine should have a certain margin for adapting to various operating conditions. In parallelgrid operation, e.g., different requirements must be met than in isolated operation.;Naturally, the technical complexity of the sequence control and supervisory system depends to a certain extent on the size and the technical concept of the turbine. A small wind turbine with a simple induction generator for parallelgrid operation cannot be compared to a variablespeed large megawatt turbine as far as operational control is concerned. This is especially true for the operating and monitoring instruments. How ever, the operating cycle is similar in all wind turbines.;As part of the operational sequence control, various operational states are defined which are characterized by predetermined parameters. Power production and stand still are stationary states, the others are transition phases from one state to another. The supervisory system checks wether all predetermined parameters are reached. If not, the shutdown is initiated. In the structure of the automatic operating sequence (oper ating cycle), the following operational states are generally distinguished