20.2 POWER PRODUCTION COSTS AND REPAYMENT PERIODS 857conventional power stations will certainly rise to a level of 0.17 US per kilowatthour. In addition, it is uncertain with respect to these costs how the fuel costs will develop within this period. In contrast, the power from wind can be calculated with almost con stant power generation costs since these are essentially determined by the capital costs expended once.;It should be pointed out, however, that the economic perspectives can only be assessed from the current point of view. The development of wind energy technology in recent years has shown how all the forecasts were beaten by reality. It is certain that the development of wind energy technology will still make significant advances in the near future. Cost savings can be expected especially in the area of the costs for the very large wind turbines in the present 5 MW class.;20.2.4 Dynamic Calculation of Economic Viability;The static calculation of power generation costs conveys only a momentary picture of the economics. A longterm investment decision requires a more farreaching perspective. This means that a dynamic approach must include the anticipated development of certain economic conditions in the investment period. This unavoidably introduces specu lative elements into the calculation of economic viability, but a longterm investment decision without this uncertainty is impossible anyway.;These speculative elements include the general inflation rate and the increase in electricity prices. These two factors have been the issue of many contentious discussions. Regard less of developments in recent years, it can be assumed, according to the opinion of the majority of economic experts, that inflation will amount to several percent per annum in the longrun and that the prices of electricity from fossil fuels will rise much more quickly than the remaining costs rising at the rate of inflation. Not least, there will be increasing ex penses for the environmental compatibility of conventional power generation which will contribute to rising electricity prices.;Calculation methods which consider the dynamic development of the relevant economic factors are based on the presentvalue or cashvalue method 2. It is characteris tic of this method that the different times of the occurrence of costs and income are taken into account regardless of whether the money has been or will be paid or received in the past or in the future. This is done by deduction of unaccrued interest (discounting) of all payment flows to a common reference time. The value of the payment flows at the respective time is called the present value. The sum of all present values is called the net present value (NPV). Comparing the return flows discounted to a time with the value of the initial investment provides a picture of the profitability of the project.