By now, utilising wind energy to generate power has become widely accepted as being necessary for ecological reasons, especially with a view to climate change but also to the preservation of fossil energy resources. Regardless of this fact, the question of costs must be put and answered. Utilising the renewable energy sources at any cost is not a realistic aim, at least under presentday conditions.;The basis for all economic considerations regarding systems utilising solar energy isthe manufacturing cost of the energy converters. The low density of the energy source requires large surface areas of the energy collectors which are thus expensive to pro duce. The central question is, therefore whether the specific manufacturing costs are too high so that the generation of energy becomes uneconomical, despite the fuel sav ings. This fate is still shared by most regenerative energy generation systems. It is only the actual utilisation of wind energy which has reached the threshold of profitability. Wind, being already a concentrated form of solar energy, offers distinctly better precon ditions for achieving profitable production costs of energy converters.;At present, commercial, seriesproduced wind turbines are available in a power rangeof up to about 3000 kW. During the last fifteen years, enormous progress has been made towards lower production costs of wind turbines. The early large experimental wind tur bines of the eighties were extremely expensive, individually manufactured prototypes, with the cost focus on the associated extensive research and development programmes. The first seriesproduced, relatively small wind turbines installed in Denmark and at American wind farms shortly in the mideighties were produced for more than 5000 US per kW rated power. Today, seriesproduced commercial wind turbines are avail able for little more than 1000 US per kW. This price level allows the economic use of wind energy even in the lower inland wind regimes.;One central problem with respect to future economics is the cost reduction potentialof wind turbines which is still available. Expectations with regard to lowering the manu facturing costs are essentially based on two factors. On the one hand, the technical state of development achieved to date still offers some scope for more costeffective solutions. This is true both for more sophisticated technical concepts and for design refinements on existing wind turbines. One main goal is to develop simpler and lighter