The currently available technology can only be used for exploiting the atmospheric windenergy potential economically on land and in shallow coastal waters of the seas where the mean annual wind speeds exceed 4 ms at 10 m height, and where the gener ated electricity does not need to be transported to the consumer over continental dis tances. Moreover, wind energy utilisation is only feasible up to a rotor hub height of 180 or 200 meters. In other words, technical and economical utilisation is only possible at sites where wind turbines of currently known designs and dimensions can be set up.;European Union is still immense. The installable power is definitely of the order of several hundred thousand megawatts, corresponding to a generated energy volume of the order of one billion kWh. This is more than half the total energy consumption of the EU in 1991 (approx. 1.8 billion kWh).;It is possible to extract such quantities of energy from the wind from a technical pointof view alone. The economic aspects are by no means utopian, either. In areas with wind speeds exceeding 4 ms (at 10 m height), the costs of power generation are of the level of current production costs of conventional power stations. Economically viable power costs are still achieved in areas with weaker wind regimes.;Utilising wind energy to such an extent would, of course, not be possible withoutprofound changes in the structure of the technical energy production of today. The prob lem of a firm power supply would have to be solved. Without a sophisticated combina tion of the most varied solar generation units and possibly even retaining considerable sections of conventional generation plants, firm power could only be guaranteed by an extremely expensive storage technology, given the current state of technology. In the long run, energy storage via hydrogen generation could represent an economically vi able solution to this problem.;From the point of view of the energy politics of the utility world, the scenario described is, of course, nothing short of a revolution, but it is far from being technologi cally utopian, however frequently this is asserted. What is utopian are not the technical possibilities, but breaking with outdated traditional priorities in the energy industry and politically accepted concessions to technological and economic developments.