It is obvious that acoustic sources of this intensity cannot do without protective soundinsulating measures. To prevent noise from reaching the outside, sound transmission by air must be reduced by a soundabsorbing nacelle fairing, and to prevent structureborne sound from being transmitted from the gearbox to the nacelle and to the tower, the gears are mounted in special bearings of elastic material (Fig. 9.51). This type of bearing also prevents torsional tensions in the mechanical drive train as a result of the unavoidable deformations in the supporting nacelle structure. Oscillations and relatively small torque peaks from the rotor are damped to a certain extent by the (albeit small) elastic torsional motion of the gears.;Operating the rotor with variable speed has several decisive advantages (s.a. Chapt. 14.6.3). The large wind turbines are equipped today almost without exception with vari ablespeed generators and frequency inverters in order to enable the rotors to be operated with variable speed. Apart from this electrical solution, there is basically also the alter native of implementing variablespeed mechanical transmission gears units. It remains an open question whether these designs will be successful compared with the electrical solu tion. However, the mechanical designs deserve at least a certain amount of attention since they, too, have some advantages.;The basic concept for implementing a modern variablespeed gearbox consists of using a planetary gearbox which has three shafts, a rotatably mounted hollow wheel, the socalled planet carrier, and the sun wheel. If an externally impressed speed is super imposed on one of the shafts, a changing speed difference occurs between the other two shafts. Using a controllable external speed actuator, a variablespeed transmission be tween the drive shaft and the output shaft can be achieved in this way. From the point of view of power transmission, the main power is transmitted positively with high effi ciency via the toothed wheels of the planetary gear train. Only the controlling energy is more lossy (power splitting). It is the task to optimize the costs by minimising the con trolling energy whilst retaining a speed range which is as wide as possible. The total efficiency of the transmission thus remains at a high level. The variablespeed drives used can be controllable electric drive units or also, e.g. hydrostatic axial piston units or hydrodynamic transducers. The hydrostatic variablespeed motors have the disadvan tage of generating a considerable amount of noise but they are compact and compara tively costeffective.;The large experimental turbines of the nineteeneighties already included a test turbine with a variablespeed, mechanical transmission gear unit. The British test turbine LSl was, for example, equipped with a variable speed gearbox system (Fig. 9.52). In this transmission gearing, the sun wheel of the planetary gearbox was set into motion by a controlled electric motor in dependence on the torque. This provided an infinitely variable transmission ratio between the lowspeed shaft and the highspeed shaft. The power transferred was split into a mechanical flow and an electrical flow. The electrical part, however, amounted to only about 10 to 20 . A narrow speed range of 5  had been chosen, so that the power needed for the control motor did not become too high.