174 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSEStime. If a steady, symmetrical flow entering the area swept by the rotor is assumed, the rotor blades of a horizontalaxis rotor are subjected to steadystate aerodynamic forces. This characteristic distinguishes the horizontalaxis rotor from the rotors with a vertical axis of rotation. Darrieus rotors or similar types are already subject to timevariant loads due to aerodynamic forces under these conditions (Chapt. 5.8). The wind loads on the rotor blades during steady and symmetrical flows are largely determined by the effective wind speed varying from the blade root to the tip. In addition, the geometrical shape of the rotor blades influences the load distribution over the length of the blade. Diagrams 6.3 and 6.4 provide an impression of the aerodynamic load distribution on the rotor blades.;The bending moments on the rotor blades in the chordwise direction are the result ofthe tangential force distribution, whereas the thrust distribution is responsible for the blade bending moments in the flapwise direction. Owing to the rotor blade twist, in particular, the distribution profile changes distinctly from the startup wind speed to the shutdown wind speed. The twist is optimized for a nominal wind speed only so that the distribution of aerodynamic loads corresponds approximately to the theoretical optimum only for this windspeed. At other wind speeds, especially higher ones, the flow separates in the blade sections near the hub. This causes the distribution of the aerodynamic loads to change considerably.;Integrating load distributions over the length of the rotor blade yields the overallrotor loads and moments. The tangential loading provides the rotor torque, and the thrust load distribution provides the total rotor thrust. These two parameters essen tially determine the static load level for the entire turbine. In rotors with blade pitch control, rotor torque and rotor thrust increase continuously up to the point where the control system limits the power to the rated power (Fig. 6.5). Rotor thrust is greatest at the rated power point, then drops off again.;In the case of rotors not incorporating pitch control, where power capture is restricted merely by aerodynamic stall, rotor thrust continues to increase, or remains at an approximately constant level, after having reached rated power. For this rea son, among several others, turbines without pitch control are subjected to higher steadystate loads (Chapt. 5.3.3).;The previous examination of the loads on rotor blades only relates to the distribution of loads in the direction along the blade. This twodimensional load picture in reality masks a mountain range of loads which also extends in the direction of the blade chord. Information about load distribution over the blade chord is usually of minor significance but is, nevertheless, necessary for dealing with some problems concerning torsional stiffness of the blade. Furthermore, this load distribution must be taken into consideration when dimensioning the skin and ribs of the rotor blade, at least when dealing with large rotor blades with a correspondingly deep chord.;The chordwise load distribution is usually derived from pressure distribution measurements, carried out on model airfoils in the wind tunnel. Airfoil catalogues contain information on these pressure distributions. They are characteristic of each airfoil and vary with the aerodynamic angle of attack (Fig. 6.6). Moreover, like the shape of the airfoil lift and drag characteristics, they are affected by the Reynolds number. Hence, applying them to the airfoil crosssections of the original rotor blade must be done with some care.