Apart from those airfoil properties which influence the performance of the rotor, the ones affecting the rotors control and operational behaviour are also of consequence. The stall behaviour of the airfoil, manifesting itself in the steep decline of the lift curve after the critical angle of attack has been exceeded, can follow a more or less gentle course. As, under certain operating conditions, the rotor will inevitably reach angles of attack where the flow separates, gentle stall behaviour of the aerodynamic airfoil is of importance. The aerodynamic moment of the airfoil must also be taken into consideration with regard to pitchcontrolled rotors. Some strongly cambered airfoils exhibit an undesira bly large change in aerodynamic moment versus angle of attack. They do not have a fixed centre of pressure. This affects the necessary pitching moments to be generated by the blade pitch system.;Up to this point, the discussion of the aerodynamic performance characteristics of the rotor was based on the assumption that the concept and geometry of the rotor was known. This approach was necessary for developing the theoretical tools. The designer of a wind turbine, however, has to tackle the problem from the opposite direction. His task is to develop the best possible rotor design on the basis of certain predetermined requirements and objectives. As a rule, the starting point of this complex engineering task will be a certain idea of the power output of the wind turbine at a particular wind speed. From this, the rotor diameter required can be derived by roughly estimating the rotor power coefficient. This first assumption of the rotor diameter is generally the start of the aerodynamic design of the rotor. Like all technical design tasks, aerodynamic rotor design, too, is not a problem which can be solved mathematically. Although it is possible, under certain conditions, to derive opti mum shapes, for example for the rotor blades, by mathematical means, they serve merely as orientation aids in the design process. The practical task is to find the best possible design compromise for the geometric shape of the rotor, taking into consideration aerodynamic performance, strength and stiffness requirements and economical production techniques, to name only the most important aspects. This result can only be achieved in an iterative proc ess. The task of aerodynamic rotor design, therefore, consists in first finding the optimum rotor shape and then, considering the unavoidable compromises which will have to be made, quantifying the influence of required deviations from the aerodynamically desired shape. In the beginning, this optimisation process will have to be carried out with an eye on the rotor power coefficient. Ultimately, however, it is its influence on the turbines energy generation that is decisive. But this is also influenced by other design parameters of the wind turbine, e.g., the installed generator power and rotor power control. As the correlation between the rotor power coefficient and energy generation can be calculated with great accuracy (s. Chapt. 13), it is sufficient to optimize the rotor aerodynamics initially with regard to the rotor power coefficient. In an excellent study, C. Rohrbach, H. Wainauski and R. Worobel described the influence of the aerodynamic design parameters on the rotor power coefficient, using the