 Not least, the entire wind turbine, i.e. the rotortowersystem, can start vibrating.;Theoretically, these four areas are not independent of one another. But a joint treatment with a comprehensive mathematical model would be both impractical and unnecessary. Generally, the vibrational coupling of these individual processes is not so strong that an independent treatment would be impossible.;Vibrations of the entire wind turbine or of its subsystems are essentially triggered by the periodically alternating and stochastically occurring aerodynamic forces. In principle, actions of force from the interior of the components, e.g. from the gearbox, or from the grid, can act to excite vibrations. However, such phenomena generally play only a minor role. Depending on the number of subsystems, a multiplicity of vibrational de grees of freedom are possible which can also influence each other (Fig. 7.1).;In view of this situation, it could be assumed that a vast number of the most variedtypes of vibrations occurs. This is so, in theory, but the vibrational coupling of the indi vidual degrees of freedom in the overall system manifests itself in many different ways so that only a few coupled vibrations are of practical significance whereas most of the other ones are only of rather academic interest.;From a practical point of view, the vibration characteristics of the wind turbine canbe reduced to a limited number of states of vibration with certain degrees of freedom. The periodic rotor forces primarily excite the flexural vibrations of the tower. In the rotor blades, it is the flapwise and chordwise movement and the torsional movement with their corresponding natural frequencies which are of significance. The first natural flapwise bending frequency of the blades can resonate with the tower bending whereas the second natural bending frequency of the blades is in most cases so high that it no longer interferes. The chordwise movement, i.e. the antimetric chordwise movement of the blades, is associated with the vibrational behaviour of the drive train (s. Chapt. 7.2.3).;Preventing the exciting rotor forces from resonating with the natural frequencies of thecomponents is the first and most important requirement for keeping the vibrational behav iour of the entire system under control. For this reason, the most important natural frequen cies of the components must already be placed correctly with respect to the exciting rotor frequencies during the design process. In this context, the fact is of significance that, with increasing size of the components, the natural frequencies become lower and the areas of resonance with the external excitations thus shift. The exciting forces of the rotor can be assigned to two categories; Exciting forces occurring with the rotors rotational frequency. These are primarilyforces from mass imbalances.