664 CHAPTER 16 COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS OF WIND TURBINESto which control capacity would be needed 21. The mathematical simulation is based on the assumption of a total power of 3000 MW supplied by 1500 individual wind tur bines. The wind turbines are distributed over a wide area. Taking into account the statis tical wind conditions in this area, the following variations in the power output of the wind turbines were obtained;These results showed that shortterm fluctuations of a few seconds or minutes are lev elled out in the interconnected power system itself by the large number of distributed wind turbines. These shortterm fluctuations thus do not present a problem. On the other hand, the power output may cease altogether over a period of one or several days. In southern Sweden, for example, the wind may die down almost completely over large areas so that any technical utilisation becomes impossible. This case is no longer a con trol problem but leads to the question of the contribution of wind power to the socalled firm power of a power generating park, which will be addressed in the next chapter.;The actual control problem is presented by the considerable fluctuations in the windpower fed in within the range of one hour. These fluctuations have also been confirmed by practical experience by now. As shown by the following example, the total wind power in the Eon control zone dropped by 3640 MW from about 4500 MW to about 900 MW within 6 hours (Fig. 16.18), corresponding to a gradient of 600 MWhr or 13  of the initial power. Any rise in wind power must also be expected to be of this order of magnitude. Obviously, the necessary power correction can only be managed by con necting and disconnecting entire power station units.;The utility quoted claims that a large capacity of socalled shadow power stationsmust be kept available for compensating for such fluctuations and numbered the neces sary backup power as up to 60  of the installed wind power. It could be objected, however, that this conclusion is also a result of the control zone. If one were to unify, and thus to enlarge, the control zones, which are primarily defined today for organiza tional reasons and not for technical ones, the result would be completely different for the required backup power.;The situation would also be improved by an improved wind forecast and thus a lesserdifference between the backup power ordered and that actually used. Independently of the magnitude of required backup power gained, it can be seen that load balancing must primarily be carried out by mediumload power stations. The higher the proportion of mediumlevel power in a set of interconnected power stations, the more wind power can be integrated into the grid. In many countries, much coal and natural gas will thus be saved as fuel by using wind power.;However, the control problems and the power compensation in the grid are in no wayonly a consequence of the wind power characteristic  the structure of the power gener ating park and of the transmission system also determine the present situation. It is, therefore, necessary to ask how power generating park and interconnected grid must be changed in order to better meet the requirements of a changing energy technology.