The operation of a wind turbine is associated with safety aspects which are both general and turbinerelated. The issue of safety must be seen from two different angles. For one, there is the problem of functional dependability of the wind turbine itself. For an un manned system, this requirement is primarily a question of reliability and thus, ulti mately, of economy. It is only during servicing and repair work that this has an immedi ate effect on humans. On the other hand, the question arises as to the extent to which a functional failure of the turbine will pose a threat to the surrounding area.;Naturally, operational safety also includes the safety of the personnel during maintenance and repair work. For this work at heights of over 100 m, firstly the general occu pational safety regulations of the Trading Standards Offices are applicable. These have also dealt with wind turbines in recent years and have issued special regulations for this field 7.;The first safety requirement must be that neither its structural strength nor its opera tional sequence will result in a wind turbine presenting safety risks which exceed the unavoidable minimum. This could be called the inherent technical reliability and is the manufacturers responsibility. It is also one of the tasks of the independent certifica tion process to guarantee that this minimum is not exceeded. The most important safety aspects are;A wind turbine generates electrical power at a voltage level similar to that of a power station. The safety regulations provided for this technology must, therefore, be strictly adhered to. Where national codes are not used, the IEC publications are to be taken as a basis. The relevant regulations prescribe in detail the safety measures to be included in the design and which regulations are to be observed by the operating or maintenance personnel. With regard to the electrical safety measures, small turbines generating power at the lowvoltage level are less complex than large turbines where the electrical systems operate in the mediumvoltage range.;No other safety system determines the safety during operation of a wind turbine as much as its capability to bring the rotor to a stop within the shortest period of time, with the greatest possible reliability and under all conceivable circumstances. It is true that, on the one hand, rotor runaway represents a specific safety hazard to a wind turbine, but on the other hand, fast braking of the rotor provides an additional safety factor which can compensate for nu merous other risks (failsafe design).