842 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSand organisational structures in existence for this purpose. It is especially in this area that there is still great improvisation to be found in the existing offshore wind parks.;The operators have in recent years held many controversial talks with the insurance companies about the insurability of offshore wind turbines with respect to repairs and service interruptions. After the initial, complete scepticism in the insurance business, temporary agreements have been reached, in the meantime in most cases. A key factor which is also being emphasized time and again by the insurance companies is the acces sibility under difficult weather conditions. The operators must explain their ideas and organisational measures in detail in this point.;In the offshore area, there are no lease payments to private property owners as in the case of onshore installation. The national territorial waters and the region of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) are state property. In Germany, for example, leaselike payments must be made to the Bundesamt fr Seeschifffahrt (BSH) (Federal Office for Maritime Shipping), but so far they are a minor cost item.;Seen overall, the operating costs for offshore wind turbines will be considerablyhigher than the costs for operating landbased wind turbines in every case. The planners of the projects and numerous independent institutes and organisations are continuously producing estimates for the longterm operating costs. A prognosis was worked out for the new version of the Renewable Energies Law in 2003 10. This study assumes that the operating costs for installations close to the coast will be higher by one third than on land and higher by one half for projects remote from the coast. The consulting company Ernst  Young published a figure of 76,000 British pounds for OM costs, derived from the offshore wind parks operated in the British waters from 20062009 11.;In the economic calculations of Chapter 20 a figure of 400.000 US is assumed forthe total running costs of a 3 MW offshore wind turbine installed in shallow water. This corresponds to the figure of ErnstYoung of approx. 300.000 US for OM. With reference to the total investment cost of the project it is a share of 5  for the annual running costs. It amounts to about to 35 of the annual revenue, provided that the elec tricity selling price is 10  higher than the generating costs (see Tables 20.5 and 20.6). For installations in deeper water an increased share of 6.0  of the investment costs has been taken.;1. Harrison, R., Hau, E., Snel, H. Large Wind Turbines  Design and Economics. John Wiley;2. Gasch, R., Twele, J. (eds.) Windkraftanlagen. Teubner, Wiesbaden (2005) 3. Siegfriedsen, S. SCD Technology for large Wind Turbines, Aerodyn Presentation, Germany