Largescale utilisation of electricity started with the construction of the first power plants. The worlds first power plants were built in New York with a power output of about 500 kW (in 1882) and in Berlin (1884) 1. Threephase current was introduced as early as 1891. Power plant technology evolved rapidly and produced everincreasing power outputs. By the beginning of the twentieth century, almost all large cities in the industrialised countries were supplied with electricity.;Electrification of the rural areas took place at a considerably slower pace. The necessary preconditions were only created by the interconnection of various types of power plants and the setting up of extensive transmission networks. Whereas in Europe and particularly in Germany, this development reached almost the remotest village by the twenties, the opening up of the rural areas in the large territorial states required enor mous efforts. In the USA, the large regions of the West were supplied with electricity as late as 1932 in the socalled Rural Electrification Programme.;The first attempts to generate electric current with the help of wind power were beingmade in that period of time when the large cities were already being supplied with elec tricity, but complete coverage of users in rural areas was not yet feasible. The spread of traditional windmills in Europe and of wind turbines in America was still nearly at its peak. It was probably inventive doityourself enthusiasts in America who were the first to try to drive electric dynamos with their wind turbines which were actually designed for pumping water. However, the first systematic development aimed at utilising wind power for the generation of electricity took place in Denmark.;Like no other, the name Poul La Cour marks the turningpoint from historical windmill building to the modern technology of power generating wind turbines (Fig. 2.17). His is the merit of perfecting traditional windmill technology on the basis of the scientific principles worked out by him, and he was a pioneer of electricity generation by means of wind power  all this in the nineteenth century 2.