610 CHAPTER 15 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTas far as both the frequency and the severity of accidents are concerned. It probably is the altogether least dangerous energy generation technology, at least when consider ing the megawatt power output range.;Wind turbines do not run completely silently. Their operation generates noise which can be heard at a certain distance. While in the case of the old windmills, this noise was generally not perceived as annoying, some modern wind turbines gave rise to com plaints. In the early phase of modern wind energy utilisation, the American MOD1, in particular, was much talked about due to the disagreeable and, at the time, inexplicable noises it made. This triggered numerous scientific investigations about the noise emis sions by wind turbines, first in the USA and a little later in some European countries.;Today, it can be said that the mechanisms behind the generation of noise emission bywind turbines are known by and large. It is certain technical characteristics that are responsible for a higher or lower noise emission, as is the case with other machines, too. In simple words there are quiet wind turbines, the noise of which is virtually impercep tible at a short distance away, and there are distinctly noisy turbines which cannot be tolerated in populated areas.;Tackling the problem of noise emission is, therefore, a must both for the designer andfor the operator of a wind turbine. If serious mistakes are made in this respect, the tur bines possibilities of application will be restricted to such an extent, that projects will be doomed to fail at many sites.;15.2.1 Acoustic Parameters and Permissible Noise Levels;Before entering into a more detailed discussion of the specific noise sources in wind tur bines, it is useful to call the most important parameters of acoustics to mind. Noise is large a question of the criteria of assessment. Unfortunately, the degree of annoyance associated with noise levels is highly subjective. This fact presents a challenge to any objective and quantitative assessment of noise but such assessments are indispensable.;The most important parameter describing the overall noise intensity at the location ofperception is the sound pressure level, usually indicated as an amplitudeweighted level and then designated by the symbol dB(A). Although in some cases levels related to other criteria can also be applied in acoustics, the dB(A) parameter comes closest to the subjec tive aural impression and so is used most frequently.;For example the German DIN standard 456451 suggests various averaging methodsfor weighting measured sound pressure curves 5. Among others, it defines a socalled noise rating level. This parameter takes into account the experience that highly tonal and impulse like noises are perceived more intensely. A certain additional amount cor responding to the tonal level and impulse character is added to the continuous sound pressure level.