272 CHAPTER 8 ROTOR BLADEScommonly used in aircraft engineering are too expensive. Aluminium, therefore can only be considered if the rotor blades can be assembled from machinemade semifinished parts.;The material costs of carbon fibre is still very expensive, but its processing can bemade very costeffective if a suitable manufacturing method is used. In addition, the advantageous mass ratios achieved by the highstrength carbon fibres should be taken into consideration. Carbon fibrereinforced composite material can, therefore, be re garded as a material with a promising future. Currently, carbon fibre is used only as an additional fibre to glass fibre in larger rotor blades.;Titanium and highalloy steels are ruled out for reasons of cost. The selection is focusedon aluminium, steel, glass fibre reinforced compound material (GFRP), mixed glasscarbon fibre designs and more recently also on woodepoxy compound designs.;Regardless of the differences with respect to the economics of wind energy technology, the design of rotor blades has been borrowed almost without exception from aircraft technology. Even though weight does not play such an important role as in aeronautics, there are many reasons speaking for a lightweight construction similar to an aircraft wing. The geometric dimensions of a large turbines rotor blades alone cannot be im plemented in any way other than by applying the principles of lightweight design. The basic design patterns can best be exemplified by tracing the historical development of the aircraft wing.;Disregarding the first flying machines, the design of which was often extremelyconfused and can hardly be grasped today, one finds that by about 1915 things had been clarified to such an extent that systematic design principles became recognisable (Fig. 8.2). The prevailing materials used were wood and lattice trusses made of steel pipes covered with fabric. The wing had supporting elements in the spanwise direction, the spars, and cross bracings, the ribs, which made up the airfoil. The covering fabric had no loadbearing function initially. Stability was provided by all kinds of struts and bracing cables.;In the course of the continuing development of aerodynamics, cantilever wings became necessary. It was realised that the inadequate torsional stability could be improved considerably by closed box structures. Firstly, the front part of the crosssection was shaped into a torsionally rigid nose box. The initially simple, beamlike main spar was refined into a boxlike structure with top and bottom flange for absorbing tensile and compressive forces, and with vertical webs for absorbing transverse forces. The rear part of the crosssection remained fabriccovered. The ribs became lattice structures. These design elements can be found in small aircraft to the present day.;The design underwent radical changes. The external skin, which was now of metal, was integrated into the loadbearing concept. The function of the spars was increasingly taken over by one or multicell spar boxes, the top and bottom flanges of which were fused with the external skin. Only the spar webs remained as such. The riveted aluminium stressedskin design prevails to this day in large aircraft.