540 CHAPTER 13 THE WIND RESOURCEcalculation of regional data from the basic local raw data of the measuring stations is re versed and the same physical and mathematical models are used. In practice, it is handled in such a manner that a suitable station located in the vicinity of the site is selected from regional wind data and then the site is classified in accordance with the criteria of orogra phy, surface roughness and shading by obstacles. For this purpose, the landscape is di vided into five different landscape types and four surface roughness classes are defined. The roughness length z0 is then determined from, among other things, the socalled roughness elements (e.g. large trees, houses, etc.). Using correction factors derived from these, the sitespecific data are calculated from the regional wind data, especially the pa rameters of the wind frequency distribution (Weibull distribution) at the hub height of the rotor. Roughly speaking, the WASP program transforms the wind data of a point A via the geostrophic wind to an arbitrary point B in the vicinity of A (Fig. 13.31).;The WASP computing model is being continuously improved and in its presentform has been very successful for open and flat coastal regions and also the level inland regions. The results present problems in mountainous terrain since the classification of the site in accordance with the above criteria becomes very difficult in this case and, moreover, the wind conditions are influenced by microclimatical orologic situations.;A further inaccuracy is found in the calculation of the mean wind speeds at heights ofmore than 80 m. The basic logarithmic height formula is only reliable in the lower area of the boundary layer of the Prandtl layer which frequently only extends up to a height of 60 m. The mean wind speed at a height of more than 80 m has often been considera bly underestimated when using the calculation according to WASP. In recent WASP versions, a special correction factor is used for improving accuracy above 80 m height (see Chapt. 13.4.2);The deviation in the wind data determined is estimated by the publishers of the windatlas to be approx. 5 , and the possible error of the mean wind power (energy yield) is approx. 15 . However, this very cautious statement should not lead to the conclu sion that a more comprehensive wind prognosis, that also includes comparisons with existing measurements in addition to the calculation according to WASP, must have these error tolerances. In the major regions of wind energy utilisation, for example in Denmark or in the North German lowlands, there are by now so many reference points available due to the increasing installation of wind turbines that wind and yield progno ses can be created with a much greater accuracy than that mentioned above, at least in those areas, if this experience and information is correctly included. In the wind studies it is common practice to use the wind turbines with vicinity, which energy yield is known as a reference for adjusting the relevant parameters for the WASP calculation regarding a new intended site. In this way the accuracy of the wind speed prediction can be improved up to an uncertainty of only few percents.;The Danish Ris research institute offers a comprehensive programme package forplanning wind power projects on the basis of the WASP computer model. The various software programs are combined under the trade name WINDPRO, not only for determining the wind speed and the energy yield but also for a number of further planning tasks like noise emission shadow effects or even more issues up to economic calculations 10.