240 CHAPTER 7 VIBRATION CHARACTERISTICScombined bendingtorsional vibration, which is virtually unavoidable in a twisted wing or rotor blade, which represents the classical case of flutter. Since this directly involves the aerodynamic angle of attack and thus the lift forces, this flutter is especially danger ous and can lead to destruction in the shortest period of time.;An effective counterforce is, above all, aerodynamic damping. Aerodynamic damping isunderstood to be the speedrelated force resulting from the change in the angle of attack, acting counter to the direction of movement. It is proportional to the speed of the vibrational deflections and is not to be confused with the aerodynamic drag in the direction of the free stream velocity. The aerodynamic damping is much greater in the flapwise direction than in the chordwise direction of the blade. Despite the presence of aerodynamic damping, the vibrational mechanism of the flutter can absorb energy under certain boundary conditions, thus becoming hazardous.;A special case of flutter is the socalled stall flutter which is characterised by a periodic change between flow separation and normal flow on the airfoil when the angle of attack is high and close to the critical angle of attack. This stall flutter can represent a danger to rotors which are deliberately operated close to aerodynamic stall at higher wind speeds. As stall is approached, the lift coefficient develops a negative gradient at increasing angles of attack. The aerodynamic damping then also becomes negative and the rotor blades can resonate with exciting frequencies both in the flapwise and the chordwise direction. In particular, chordwise rotor blade vibration was observed in some larger stallcontrolled turbines 2.;The tendency of the rotor blades to flutter is determined by a multitude of parameters. The most important ones are the natural frequencies of the blades as regards the direction of flapping, chordwise and torsion motion, the coning angle, the twist, as well as the relative positions of the aerodynamic centre with respect to the centre of mass, and of the elastic axis and the plane of rotation. A first criterion for a possible suscepti bility to flutter is the relationship between torsional stiffness and the distance of the elastic axis from the centre of mass. This makes it possible to specify stability limits (Fig. 7.6).