5.4 THE AERODYNAMIC AIRFOIL 129velocity and pressure distribution. The flow follows the laws of the socalled potential theory.;The drag experienced by the body in the flowing medium is composed of viscous drag in the boundary layer and pressure drag as a consequence of the pressure forces from the external flow acting on the body. The significance of the boundary layer lies in the fact that the entire flow around the body can be controlled from here. The flow state in the boundary layer is initially laminar, i.e. in wellordered, parallel layers. After a certain transition point depending on the Reynold number and on the roughness of the bodys surface it changes into a turbulent state. In this state, vortices and irregu lar crossmovements form in the flow which cause mixing with the adjacent layers. The boundary layer also has the characteristic of increasing in thickness, and thus also becoming more turbulent, as the length of travel of the flow over the bodys surface increases (Fig. 5.39). At a certain thickness, the boundary layer becomes detached from the surface and pushes the outside flow away from the body, resulting in a flow separa tion with a turbulent dead water region and an associated change in the pressure distribution around the body. The changed, unbalanced pressure distribution around the body also manifests itself as pressure drag of the body. The viscosity in the boundary layer is thus lastly also the cause of the entire drag consisting of the viscous drag in the boundary layer and the pressure drag from the outer flow around the body. On the other hand, a turbulent boundary layer adheres to the surface of the body for longer so that the flow separation is displaced backward beyond the largest crosssection of the body and the dead water region thus becomes smaller. This is the case with truncated bodies (sphere or circular cylinder) and reduces their pressure drag (s. Chapt. 6.3.5). Due to their shape, slim streamlined bodies (aerody namic airfoils) have an extremely small dead water region. Their drag therefore consists almost entirely of the viscous drag in the boundary layer. Under these circumstances, the boundary layer becoming turbulent produces an increase in drag. The longer the boundary layer remains laminar, the lower the drag. Apart from the surface friction, the point of transition from a laminar to a turbulent boundary layer flow is also determined by the pressure gradient in the flow. With an accelerated flow, i.e. with a drop in pressure, the boundary layer remains laminar and the separation of the boundary layer is avoided. Decreasing pressure, i.e. accelerated