A highly critical stance should, therefore, be taken towards the argument that largescale power generation with wind turbines should not be taken into consideration as their visual impact is completely unacceptable. If similar standards were applied to other technologies, the world would look completely different (Fig. 15.19). On the other hand the sins of the past cannot be a justification for new errors. The supporters of wind turbines must face up to critical attitude concerning their visual im pact. In some areas, limits will, therefore, have to be set to their spread. They will share this fate, it is to be hoped, with an increasing number of technical structures.;Since the protection of the earths atmosphere, primarily the reduction of the emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and the associated warming of the climate, has as sumed first priority in the political agenda, the glance at the numerous wind turbines has become somewhat less hostile, even that of the opponents of wind turbines. Noone wants to be accused of ignoring the complete picture, the protection of the earths at mosphere, because of their narrowminded point of view.;In this connection, two questions arise Is a concentrated assembly of wind turbinescapable of exerting a negative influence on the climate of the surrounding environment? A question which may not come from the scientific world, but it should be addressed. And secondly, more seriously What contribution to the reduction in CO2 emissions can be provided by the utilisation of wind energy.;15.8.1 Effect on the Local Climate;Occasionally, fears are uttered that wind turbines could have a negative effect on the environmental climate, as they slow down the wind. This aspect of any conceivable environmental impact also requires some remarks.;The theoretically optimal reduction of the wind speed by a wind rotor is a third of theundisturbed wind speed in the rotor plane. This physical law should first be called to mind. However, due to the actual power coefficient and the control process, this wind speed reduction is not realised to its full extent in practice. For example, at the rated operating point of a large wind turbine, the wind speed is slowed down by about 25 . In the entire operational wind speed range from 5.4 to 24 ms, the wind speed is retarded by only 18  on average. Referred to the kinetic energy content of the air flow in a local area 1000 m wide and 200 m high, for example, through which the wind blows at a speed of 12 ms, this amounts to only 0.7 .;This figure already illustrates that one single wind turbine cannot exert a measurableinfluence on the environmental climate. Meteorologically caused energy conversion processes achieve quite different orders of magnitudes in the boundary layer of the atmosphere close to the surface. For this reason, a measurable influence on the envi ronmental climate is only conceivable, if at all, with a massed array of large wind tur bines. However, it is highly improbable that real negative effects are actually brought about by this means. At wind speeds below about 4 ms, wind turbines are not