The outer coating consists of at least two and at most three different paint coats. Some countries or regions have regulations regarding the colour of the tower.;Manufacturing tubularsteel towers with a diameter of up to about 4 m is a conventional technology that does not make any great demands on the equipment of the manu facturers. At heights of more than 90 m, the tower base diameter becomes greater than 4.5 m and the required thickness of the steel exceeds 40 mm. Shaping the steel sheets, i.e. rollbending them, will then require special machines which are not always available in normal structural steel works. To this is added that, due to the large diameter, the lower tower sections can no longer be transported by road. Tubular steel towers are mostly out of the question for tower heights above 100 m.;If the transportation routes from the manufacturing plant to the installation site are with out large obstacles or if onsite welding is possible, singlepiece towers are also occa sionally used. This saves the relatively expensive and occasionally also faulty bolted joints of the sections. The company SAM from Magdeburg produces tubular steel towers of one piece of up to a height of 97 m for Enercon for particular sites. With 5.5 m, the base part of these towers is too large for road transportation and is welded together from several segments on site. Following this, the entire tower is welded together from prefab ricated sections in a horizontal position. The whole tower is then hoisted into a vertical position using a relatively small crane.;12.4.3 Climbing Aids and Internal Installations;The tower must provide for a safe ascent to the nacelle and also contain certain electri cal installations, particularly the leaddown of the power transmission cables to the tower base. This requires certain internal installations. Depending on the height, a num ber of intermediate platforms are normally installed, typically one platform for each tower section (Fig. 12.15). Up to a height of about 6070 m simple vertical ladders with climbing protection (safety rope or safety rail) are used for the ascent. If required by the operator, simple socalled climbing lifts are installed for tower heights above 80 m.;The cables for transmitting the electrical power are hanging free with a running loopin the upper tower section. The mounting elements for introducing the cables into the tower are part of the tower installations (Fig. 12.16). In addition, internal lighting is mandatory for maintenance work in the tower.;In larger turbines, it has become customary to accommodate transformer, switchingpanel and control lamps for reading the operating data in the tower. The transformer, in particular, requires considerable space and the installation of a ventilating and cooling system (Fig. 12.17). At the tower base, a secure entry door is required which is usually at an elevated level with respect to the building in order to prevent water from penetrat ing in the case of bad weather.;For some applications and depending on the internal equipment, i.e. transformers and;For some applications and depending on the internal equipment, i.e. transformers andcontrol systems, the internal climate of the tower has to be controlled. Particularly for offshore applications, air conditioning including dehumidifying and filtering the intake