In 1987, a winddiesel system which largely corresponds to the concept describedabove was installed on the Irish island of Cape Clear. Unfortunately, the experience gained during its operation was not favourable enough for an economical operation to be kept up over a longer period of time. It was found in this case, too, that these as yet rather improvised systems require intensive technical servicing which would not be guaranteed in this remote site. The implementation of winddiesel systems which are really commercially viable is obviously still a task for the future.;By far more than 95  of the worldwide wind energy capacity is connected to large utility grids. The operation on a large grid has several important advantages with re spect to the characteristics of wind power generation. The power output of the wind turbines needs not be controlled in accordance with the instantaneous power demand of a specific consumer. The lack of firm power delivered by the wind turbines is com pensated by the conventional power stations. Last but not least, the frequency of the large grid is held by the power stations and can be used to control the rotor speed of the wind turbines. Against this background, the operation of wind turbines in parallel with the grid is technically not as complicated as in standalone applications.;16.3.1 Distributed Wind Turbines Operated by Private Consumers;The operation of a single wind turbine or of a few wind turbines by private or industrial consumers of electric power was the first field of application which achieved commer cial status. It is primarily in Denmark that private customers, mostly with farms, small businesses and in recent years also communities have been buying wind turbines and have been operating them interconnected with the public grid since approximately 1978. This development was made possible by Danish legislation and by initially high public subsidies for electricity generation from wind energy. The technical experience in con structing and operating small wind turbines existing in Denmark also played quite a significant role (s. Chapt. 2.5).;Particularly in Germany, wind turbines became widespread. The socalled Ein speisegesetz fr Strom aus regenerativen Energien (Law Concerning the Feeding in of Power from Regenerative Energy Sources) from 1990 created a reliable basis for paying for power from wind energy. A similar development took place a few years later in several other European countries, such as the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Spain. Depending on the geographical conditions, the wind turbines are used more in large wind parks as in Spain, for example, or more as single installations or in relatively small groups.;The distributed installation of wind turbines is relatively easy from a technical standpoint. The wind turbines are operated almost exclusively in parallel with the grid. This means that the systems are directly electrically coupled to the fixedfrequency grid, so