Tf  technology factor  The technology factor of industrially manufactured products is mostly between 0.85 and 0.95. Here are some examples;Figure 19.13 shows the cost reduction resulting from different technology factors as a function of the number of units. But due to the difficulty of having to estimate the tech nology factor of a new product, prognoses based on the learning curve are associated with relatively large uncertainties.;Up to now, reliable evaluations with regard to the technology factor in the series production of wind turbines have not yet been published. On the basis of comparisons with similar products, it can be expected that the costs per unit will have dropped by 40 to 50  by the 100th unit. This corresponds to a technology factor of between 0.90 and 0.95. The prerequisite for this is, of course, a continuous production, which means that the production rate (number of units per time) must not be too low. On the other hand, it must be taken into consideration that wind turbines largely consist of components which al ready include the economy of scale factor due to mass production. The learning factor thus only relates to the turbinespecific components like rotor blades etc. For this reason, only a much lower cost reduction from prototype to the onehundredth unit can be expected.;Mass production with a very high number of units, for example several thousand unitsper year, is not economical without a qualitative change in the production equipment. Thus, it is no longer the learning curve alone which determines the economy of scale, but also the investments in production equipment. The range of existing production equip ment is extremely wide. At present, the pinnacle is represented by the almost fully automated assembly line production used in the automobile industry. Making general statements with regard to the production costs of wind turbines is hardly possible under these conditions. Entrepreneurial considerations become relevant. The manufacturer will invest more or less in the production equipment depending on his expectations with regard to future sales.;Automated production methods will not be of great significance in the manufactureof wind turbines within the foreseeable future. However, one should not be blind to the fact that industrial production in small numbers also requires certain investments into production equipment and an adaptation of the production structures to the product.