Fatigue damage, for instance as a consequence of a local stress concentration or incombination with progressive corrosion, can never be entirely discounted in steel com ponents. An undiscovered and progressive fatigue crack, for instance in the area of the metal connecting structure or of the rotor hub, involves the inherent danger of the rotor blades suddenly breaking off without the rotor emergency shutdown having had a chance to take effect.;To counter this danger the allowable stress level in the material is set so low that asafe life can be guaranteed (safelife design) with regard to fatigue, taking into con sideration the operational strength theories. Moreover, manufacturing quality, particu larly with regard to the welding seams, is subjected to the strictest controls. Despite these quality control measures and tests during production, regular checks during opera tion are nevertheless indispensable.;Rotor blades made of composite fibre material prove to be less critical than steelcomponents with regard to cracking. If a structural failure does occur in composite fibre material, the blades as a rule do not break off abruptly but rather fray out. With rotor blades made of composite fibre material, the danger of a sudden breakage is, therefore, concentrated on the metal connecting structures and on the interface between the con necting flange and the fibre structure. Design and quality control during manufacture are, therefore, of special significance for the operating safety in this area.;The vibration behaviour of a wind turbine has been discussed extensively in Chapter 11. The occurrence of resonances in the rotor blades, in the tower or in the entire turbine must, therefore, be counted among the specific safety risks. The monitoring system, therefore, contains a special vibration detection system. It consists of several accelerometers which are mounted at critical locations in the wind turbine.;They consist of a steel ball which is connected to a switch via a chain and which rests in a shallow depression or bore hole. When strong vibrations develop the ball is shaken out of its position and its fall triggers the rotor braking system. Larger wind turbines have more complex, electronic vibration detection systems. The signals from different sen sors such as strain gauges and accelerometers are evaluated by a processor and the safety system is activated whenever preset threshold values are exceeded.;Wind turbines are not particularly at risk from fire like vehicles or aircraft having rela tively large quantities of flammable fuel on board. Nevertheless, experience has shown that fires can also occur in wind turbines and have led to their complete destruction in some cases (Fig. 18.45). There are also combustible building materials, insulating mate rials and lubricants present in wind turbines. For example, the extensive cladding of the nacelle of fibrereinforced plastic is also combustible (s.a. Chapt. 8.12.2). Lightning strikes and electrical shortcircuits are the primary triggers for fires.