Obviously, the aerodynamic power control of the rotor must have some influence on the loading. The first, more basic question is the question about the differences between blade pitch control and power limitation due to aerodynamic stall. In earlier years this almost amounted to a question of faith in wind energy technology but in the meantime, this conflict has lost its meaning since almost all the larger turbines have blade pitch control with a variablespeed mode of operation.;Stalltype systems with fixed rotor blades must doubtlessly withstand higher ultimateloads. As explained in Chapter 5.3.2, the rotor thrust does not drop off after the rated power level has been reached and the associated stall has begun as in the case of a blade pitch control system. This high shearing force of the rotor represents a comparatively high load both for the tower and the foundation, but also for the rotor blades themselves. An even more significant fact is that at extreme wind velocities, there is no possibility of bringing the rotor blades into a favourable feathered position and the loads become extremely high when parked. Since the dimensions of the tower and its foundations are determined by the maximum loads this will lead to greater structural masses and thus also to higher manufacturing costs. However, these parked loads can be avoided by using an active stall control system (s.a. Chapt. 5.3.3) which, on the other hand, makes it more difficult to obtain a fundamental comparison between pitch control and stall.;The situation becomes more complicated when fatigue strength is considered. Thereaction to a fluctuation in the wind velocity differs greatly in the two control systems. At higher wind velocities within the range of its power rating and above, a stall controlled turbine will always run close to stalling. Any shortterm increase in wind velocity will immediately lead deeper into the stalling range, with the consequence that the lift coefficient will drop, and thus also the loading. For this reason, the fatigue load spectrum resulting from the wind turbulence is more favourable here than in pitch controlled units.;Due to the inertia of blade pitching, rotors with pitch control are not capable of responding to the shortterm fluctuations in wind energy which is why the fatigue loads resulting from the wind turbulence become higher. The blade pitch control can only be used for responding to relatively longlasting fluctuations in the wind velocity (Fig. 6.32).;It must be pointed out here, however, that the comparison with stall with blade pitchcontrol at a fixed rotor speed has become more or less academic today. In almost all of the more recent plants, the blade pitch control is associated with a variablespeed oper ating mode and the conditions are completely different (s.a. Fig. 6.35). Combining blade pitch control with a variable mode of operating the rotor has the effect of almost com pletely smoothing out the power delivery and thus also making the loading more uni form with respect to the torque acting on the mechanical drive train (gearbox).;In addition, the blade pitch control has a further option which can contribute to furtherlowering of the load level in future. In most cases, an individual electric pitch actuator is used today for each rotor blade. This opens up the opportunity of adjusting the pitch angle of the rotor blades individually, i.e. independently of one another. For the reasons outlined in Chapter 5.3.1 the introduction of a loaddepending individual pitch control has not been