506 CHAPTER 13 THE WIND RESOURCEthe absorption of the solar energy varies both with respect to geographic distribution and with respect to the time of the day and the annual distribution. This nonuniform heat absorption produces great differences in the atmosphere with respect to tempera ture, density and pressure so that the resultant forces will move the air masses from one place to another. Above all, the tropical regions on the earth absorb much more solar energy throughout the year than the polar regions. Since, as a result, the tropical regions become warmer and warmer and the polar regions become increasingly colder, there is a strong convection current flowing between these regions.;Coriolis forces produced by the rotation will deflect the air masses to the right (seenin the direction of flow) in the northern hemisphere and to the left in the southern hemi sphere. This process causes the familiar spiral movements of air equalisation known from the cloud pictures of the low pressure regions.;The second effect of earth rotation becomes effective at a medium altitude. Each airparticle has an angular momentum that is directed from west to east. If the particle is mov ing in the direction of the poles, it will approach the axis of rotation of the earth more closely. The law of conservation of momentum causes an increase in the velocity compo nent from west to east as compensation for the increasingly closer approach to the pole. This effect is less in the vicinity of the equator and causes the socalled west drift that is opposite to the global wind direction (Fig. 13.1).;Apart from these global movements of air equalisation in the atmosphere, the windflows are also influenced by smallscale topography situations. For example, mountain slopes facing the sun are heated more quickly. The heating and cooling of large con tiguous forest regions differ from that of water surfaces close by. Specially shaped valley cuttings which follow the main wind direction can cause jetlike effects which locally accelerate the wind velocity. These effects are certainly of significance for the local wind conditions and must be taken into consideration when selecting a site for wind turbines, and can also be utilised to advantage.;Close to the ground, the surface friction produces a decrease in wind velocity, whichalso reduces the effect of the Coriolis forces. For this reason, the wind direction close to the ground is deflected by approx. 30 less than the geostrophic wind in European lati tudes. Above the sea where the friction is less because of the relatively smooth surface, the difference in direction with respect to the geostrophic wind is only about 10. Since the equalisation between the different pressure regions takes place mainly by means of the deflected wind close to the surface, the lowpressure regions, for example, will per sist longer over the sea and are also accompanied by higher wind velocities.;At greater altitude, the air moves along lines of equal pressure (isobars). This movement of air masses at an altitude of more than about 600 m is called geostrophic wind, where the airflow can be considered free of surface influences. At lower altitudes the influences of the earths surface can be felt. This part of the atmosphere is known as the boundary layer. The principal effects governing the properties of the boundary layer are the strength of the geostrophic wind and the surface roughness, Coriolis effects and thermal effects.;The influences of the thermal effects are graded into three categories stable, unstableand neutral stratification. Unstable stratification occurs when there is a lot of surface heating. The warm air rises and the result is a thick boundary layer with heavy turbu lence in the air. If the adiabatic cooling effect causes the rising air to become colder than its surroundings, its vertical motion will be suppressed. This is called a stable