638 CHAPTER 16 COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS OF WIND TURBINESand economic conditions compared to the operation of distributed single turbines. The vision of operating large wind turbines offshore in the coastal areas of the sea is also included in these considerations and will be dealt with in a separate chapter because of its significance for the future.;The first attempts of generating electric current with the help of wind energy were al most always directed at providing independent electrical energy in remote areas without connection to the grid. As long as a few hundred watts of direct current were enough to cover this modest need of electrical energy, generally only for lighting, this object could be achieved with comparatively simple technical means by using a small wind turbine and a storage battery (Chapt. 2.1).;Nowadays direct current is not longer used. Even when dwelling and living circumstances are modest, the wide variety of electrical loads requires utilitygrade AC power. Self sufficiency of individual houses thus becomes a comparatively complex technical problem. From an economic point of view a suitable technical configuration can only be justified if it can be achieved by means of relatively large wattages which is the reason why the dream of many to have their own independent power supply with a small wind turbine of only a few kilowatt power cannot be economically realised today. Given the current specific investment costs, an autonomous power supply system comprising a small wind turbine plus a storage battery and an inverter represents a very costly solu tion and only makes sense if there is no access to the grid.;The fundamental technical problem with the isolated operation of wind turbines isthe dependence of the consumers to be supplied on the wind turbines energy yield. This dependence has two different aspects. On a shortterm basis this means that the wind turbines power output must be matched to the power consumption of the loads. There must be an equilibrium between wind turbine and load at any given moment. This power balance either requires that the wind turbine can be controlled accordingly or that the power consumption of the load can be adapted to the output of the turbine (Chapt. 10).;Moreover, even standalone operation frequently requires current with a constant frequency. This requirement can be met to a limited degree of accuracy by wind turbines with blade pitch control, and wind turbines with fixed blade pitch have to be equipped with adjustable electrical load resistors, socalled dump loads. Where this is not pre cise enough, the only solution is a selfcommutating frequency converter (Chapt. 10.4).;In a longterm operation, the dependence of the load on the wind turbine leads to thequestion of security of supply (firm power). Due to the nature of the wind, independent and firm power cannot be realised by means of wind turbines alone. It requires an over all supply concept which includes at least an energy storage system. In some special cases of isolated operation the question of energy storage can be solved costefficiently where water is used as the medium for energy storage. In almost all other cases expen sive batteries must be used, otherwise security of supply can only be guaranteed by means of a hybrid system including a conventional energysupply unit, a diesel genera tor in most cases, as backup unit.