20.1 CORPORATE ORGANISATION OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING 847economic examination of the projects and ultimately also exerts influence on the invest ment decision itself. As an additional security, the banks demand a minimum share of equity in order to reduce their credit risks.;In some countries, e.g. Germany or Denmark, bank loans for investment projects in;In some countries, e.g. Germany or Denmark, bank loans for investment projects inthe energy and environment sector are provided at cheaper prices. For example, loans paid out via the commercial banks are available at lower interest rates for various re funding programmes supported by stateowned banking organisations. These credits are requested from the commercial banks for the investment project to be financed and are then available to them as refinancing means. Most wind turbine projects in Germany were financed in this way in recent years. The average interest rate was about 1.5 to 2  below the direct loans provided by the commercial banks.;Apart from bank financing, direct public grants also played a role in the field of renewable energies in the past. A variety of direct and indirect funding programmes was available in most countries. Public grants provided an important impulse in the early phase of wind energy utilisation, but lost their importance with the improvement of wind energy economics. Today, public grants only play a role in research and devel opment projects.;Financing an investment project requires a legal framework on the owners side. Inthe simplest case, when the owner is a natural person, he or she will register a busi ness, unless this is already the case. The liabilities towards the creditor bank for the credits as well as the tax assessment are basically the same as in any other trade or business. With larger projects, a special purpose company (SPC) which owns the project legally will be established, particularly when external investors are involved. In this case there are several options with regard to the legal form;A private company is the most uncomplicated legal form and can be formed by a num ber of persons (at least two). The tax advantages (writing off the operating losses) can be taken advantage of directly by the individual person. All partners in the company are personally liable for up to the total sum of obligations.;In the case of the limited company, the liability is theoretically restricted to the nominal capital. In real life, however, banks demand a personal liability or other real securities for loans to small limited companies. Tax advantages with regard to depreciations re main within the limited company and cannot be used by the individual partners. Larger projects can be handled better by a limited company than by a private company since a manager must be appointed and an annual account must be kept.