790 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSstructures and thus lastly also cheaper machines. The large wind turbines will certainly still make considerable progress in this regard.;The second decisive factor for lowering the manufacturing costs is, of course, theproduction of a greater number of units. Measured against todays costs, large wind turbines will again profit from this to a disproportionate amount. However, one should not harbour exaggerated hopes in this respect. Wind turbines will probably never come off the assembly line like automobiles. The achievable cost reduction potential will be restricted to runs of a few hundred units, or maybe a few thousand units per year in the best case.;Prices are not necessarily identical with costs. Naturally, this elementary economicrule also applies to wind turbines. Manufacturers consider the market situation when setting their sales prices so that their profit margins vary depending on time and loca tion. The longterm stabilisation of the market is, therefore, of considerable importance in arriving at a reliable cost calculation, both for the manufacturing companies and for the users who will rediscover the price ex factory of the wind turbines as costs in their profitability calculation.;The costs of the wind turbines themselves form the main component of the investmentcosts for turnkey projects for utilising wind energy. However, the other cost components must also not be underestimated. There are two main trends with regard to this aspect On the one hand, the planning periods for large wind farms are increasing considerably, and with them the costs. On the other hand, the costs for the technical implementation of buildings and electrical infrastructure are tending to fall.;The offshore installation of wind turbines is a special case which, however, is increasingly gaining in importance. The investment and operating costs are higher than on land and the bandwidth is much greater, depending on the installation conditions. On the other hand, the higher wind velocities at sea also economically compensate for some of the higher costs.;An inventory of the costs or prices of wind turbines can always be only a snapshot. It is based on the state of the art reached and on the corresponding production methods. Be yond that, the general economic conditions are also of significance. Even if, therefore, the numeric validity of the price information may already be obsolete after a few years, an analysis of the state reached today is still of importance. A prognosis of the future development can only be based on a particular situation. The level of costs has not changed significantly over a relatively long period up to about 2005. The costs, and thus also the prices for wind turbines, have risen distinctly only in recent years.;At present, wind turbines have reached a commercial status up to a power of aboutthree thousand kilowatt. The most successful manufacturers have produced some thou sand units of their best sellers in the 1500  2000 kW class. The maximum annual production of these turbines was about 1000 units. If the production costs of todays seriesproduced wind turbines are mentioned, these must be seen against the back ground outlined above. The method of production can best be characterized by a rela tively large batch production on an assembly line, similar to production in aircraft construction. This method is still far removed from mass production.