The final and largest project, the MOD5A designed by General Electric, no longerreached completion. The turbine was intended to have a rotor diameter of 122 m and a rated power of 7 300 kW (Fig. 2.22). A socalled aileroncontrolled twobladed rotor was provided as a special feature (see also Chapt. 5, Fig. 5.57). The project was cancelled in 1993 in favour of the MOD5B since this design was largely based on the preceding MOD2 turbines and could be implemented more rapidly and inexpensively with the sub sidies by the DOE which were still available. After the MOD5B had been tried out in the Hawaiian Islands, the state subsidised development for the large experimental turbines came to a halt in the United States.;In Denmark, a start was made by a private initiative. In 1975, the Tvind Turbinewas erected by a syndicate at an adult education school in Ulfborg (Fig. 2.23). The turbine was built with much enthusiasm and idealism but constructed rather amateur ishly in some respects. After that, the Danish utilities built the experimental systems Nibe A and Nibe B (Fig. 2.24).;2.26). In addition, however, innovative designs such as the Voith WEC520 (Fig. 2.27) or several units of the singlebladed design Monopteros (Fig. 2.28) were constructed. Some years later  as a second beginning as it were  the Aeolus II turbine followed in cooperation with Sweden (Fig. 2.29) and the WKA60 on the island of Heligoland (Fig. 2.30).;WTS75 (later Aeolus I), with a rated power of 2 MW and a rotor diameter of 75 m, was erected in 1982 on the island of Gotland (Fig. 2.31). A few months later, this was followed by another large turbine with 3 MW output and a rotor diameter of 78 m (Fig. 2.32). It was installed in the South of Sweden in Marglarp, not far from Malm. The technical design of the two experimental systems was deliberately selected to be different. The turbine on Gotland represented the socalled stiff line with a hingeless rigid rotor hub and a rigid prestressed concrete tower. The WTS3 in Marglarp embodied lighterweight and more flexible principles of construction. The twobladed rotor was provided with a teetered hub and the tower was a steel shell tower in a soft design from the point of view of vibration characteristics.;(WTS3) and a German company (WTS75), respectively. In the United States, the sis ter model to the WTS3, the WTS4, was built by HamiltonStandard, and in Sweden and in Germany, the WTS75 was developed  a few years later  and became the Aeolus II (see Fig. 2.29).;In these years, the governmental research institutions in Canada initiated a development programme focused on a particular technology. Managed by the National Re search Council (NRC), the programme was concentrated on the development of vertical axis wind turbines (VAWTS) of the Darrieus type of construction. Some smallscale experimental turbines were tried out in remote regions in conjunction with diesel gen erators. The programme reached its peak in the construction of the largest ever Darrieus rotor in 1985. The ole project had an equatorial diameter of 64 m, a height of 100 m and a generator power of 4 MW (Fig. 2.33). However, the experiences gained in the relatively short operating time were not very encouraging and the turbine was disman tled and only a few test results were published. Not long after that, the Canadian devel opment programme was terminated since it was clear by now that the VAWT type of