Fig. 17.13. Offshore substation of the Dutch Q7 wind parkeach capable to transmit of about 150 MW. A pair of cables is layed with a certain dis tance from each other to reduce the danger of being damaged by one event, for example, a collision with a fisher net.;However, transmitting alternating current over long distances presents its own problems. The cables act like a large capacitor, that is to say electrically they exhibit capaci tive characteristics. Above a certain distance (about 100 km), the permanently required charging current (reactive power) is of such a magnitude that virtually no more active power can be transmitted. The only remedy can be provided by parallelconnected choke coils that compensate for the reactive current. Since the required reactive power increases as the square of the voltage level, it;lems. The cables act like a large capacitor, that is to say electrically they exhibit capaci tive characteristics. Above a certain distance (about 100 km), the permanently required charging current (reactive power) is of such a magnitude that virtually no more active power can be transmitted. The only remedy can be provided by parallelconnected choke coils that compensate for the reactive current. Since the required reactive power increases as the square of the voltage level, itmakes sense to limit the voltage level to, e.g. 110 to 150 kV. The voltage drop over this distance and the associated loss in efficiency are quite considerable. The transmission efficiency of a 145 kV threephase marine cable is given as follows 10 Length Transmission efficiency 50 km  0,95 100 km  0,92 150 km  0,88 These disadvantages are having the result that the economic efficiency of transmit;makes sense to limit the voltage level to, e.g. 110 to 150 kV. The voltage drop over this distance and the associated loss in efficiency are quite considerable. The transmission efficiency of a 145 kV threephase marine cable is given as follows 10 Length Transmission efficiency 50 km  0,95 100 km  0,92 150 km  0,88 These disadvantages are having the result that the economic efficiency of transmitting threephase current is being questioned for a distance of more than about 50 km and