13.6.2 Ascertaining the Wind Data and the Energy Yield from the;In recent years, the European Wind Atlas has become one of the most important tools in determining a site for wind turbines and predicting the energy yield to be expected. In European countries, the usual wind studies are produced almost exclusively by this method if they cannot be based on the evaluation of measurements at the site itself. The calculations of economic viability, and thus the decision regarding investments for many projects, rely on the information provided by this semiempirical method. For this reason, some fundamental notes relating to the methods involved and the reliability are indispensable. The correct application of this method is assisted by very good documen tation including data sources and calculation methods provided on floppy disks which are commercially available 4. It is not difficult to handle but the method is not without risk if it is used in a purely formal way, i.e. without adequate general experience in the field of wind conditions and site factors.;The first part was originally based on about 220 measuring stations from whichmeasurement data are available for a relatively long period (essentially from 1970 to 1980). These measurement data, in most cases measured at the standard meteorological measuring height of 10 m, supply the raw data of the atlas. The measurement data in clude the local coordinates of the measuring station, the measuring height, the socalled roughness rose, i.e. the information on environmental roughness in directional sectors and the frequencies of wind speed and wind direction specified in the sectors. In addi tion, the database contains the diurnal and annual variation in wind speed. From these data, the Weibull parameters A and k have been calculated for each directional sector.;From these raw data, the socalled regional wind climatology is determined by usingthe geostrophic law of friction. The geostrophic law of friction is a fundamental theoreti cal approach to describing the wind conditions in the boundary layer of the earths atmos phere. The forces resulting from the pressure gradients in the atmosphere are brought into equilibrium with the frictional forces of the earths surface, removing local influences like orology, environmental roughness and obstacles from the local raw data of the measuring stations and calculating the Weibull parameters (A and k) for regionally valid wind data. These data then apply to flat and even terrain and no shading by obstacles and are calculated for four different roughness classes. They are also specified in directional sec tors and, in this form, represent the wind conditions that can be applied to a region of about 200 x 200 km. When extrapolating to greater heights, the wind data correspond to the wind conditions of the geostrophic wind. In the wind atlas, the data thus determined are represented at a height of 50 m, using maps and tables (s.a. Chapt. 13.2.1).