Wind turbines are subjected to very specific loads and stresses. At a first glance, the main problem appears to be the stability in heavy storms and hurricanes. However, the continuous alternating loads  even under normal wind conditions  are just as problem atic. Alternating loads are more difficult to cope with than static loads because the mate rial becomes fatigued. The dimensions of the components present a further problem. As a working medium, the air is of low density so that the surfaces required for converting energy must be large. If the dimensions of the rotor increase, the dimensions of other components must also increase, for example the tower height. Large structures are inevitably elastic and the changing loads thus create a complex aeroelastic interplay which induces vibrations and resonances and can produce high dynamic load components. The structural dimensioning of a wind turbine must be considered under three differ ent aspects Firstly, attention must be paid to ensuring, from the point of view of breaking strength, that the components are designed for the extreme loads encountered. This means in real terms that the turbine and its essential components must be able to with stand the highest wind speeds which may occur. The second requirement is that the fatigue life of the components must be guaranteed for their service life, as a rule 20 to 30 years. While the stresses with respect to extreme loads can be estimated relatively easily, the problem of fatigue life is virtually the key issue with wind turbines. Wind turbines are the perfect fatigue machines! The third aspect concerns the stiffness of components. On the one hand, structures with elastic properties reduce fatigue, but on the other hand, external excitations pro duce vibrations in elastic components. The vibration behaviour of a wind turbine can be kept under control only when the stiffness parameters of all its components are carefully matched in order to avoid hazardous resonances and additional dynamic loads. Dynamic loading on the wind turbine unavoidably does exist due to the changing external loads but it should not be amplified by a critical vibrational behaviour of the components.