VI FOREWORD TO THE THIRD ENGLISH EDITIONand considerable investments for the transmission and distribution of power on land to consumers located far in the interior. The present third edition also attempts to analyse the current state of the art in these areas and to clarify it by quoting examples. These general remarks about the present state of wind energy utilisation apart, I will refrain from commenting further on the selfevident importance of wind energy for the global energy crisis and for the environmental crisis. However, I do feel that some helpful hints on what this book is about will not be misplaced. The title wind turbines refers to industrially developed and manufactured machines for generating electrical power. Those looking for a doit yourself manual for putting together a windwheel, as interesting a hobby as this may be, will, therefore, be disappointed. Instead, this book is intended to give a general overview of modern wind turbine technology and to provide a means of orientation in the associated technical and economical fields and its contents and form of representation are structured with this objective in mind. I have tried to analyse and to describe the problems involved and their technical solutions phenomenologically and to avoid mathematical equations as much as possible. Equations have been included only where a presentation of fundamental principles was deemed to serve a better understanding but for those interested, I have indicated relevant literature at the end of each chapter, which would provide the first steps to the mathematical treatment of the problems described. Those who are responsible for decisions about investments or steer the technical and scientific work do not commonly sit at the computer themselves. However, they must have a clear picture of the state of the art, what technical options are available and what lessons are to be learnt. A book of this scope which touches on a variety of special disciplines cannot be written without assistance. I must, therefore, thank the many people who have helped me along the way and without whose contributions the book could not have been completed. Primarily, I am very much obliged to my friend and colleague of many years, Gerald Hu, who supported me very much in the first phase of the work, as early as 1980. For this third edition he recalculated and refreshed numerous diagrams and supported me in the final editing of the entire book. Finally, I wish to thank all those who have assisted me in my work on these recent editions. In particular, I am indebted to Horst von Renouard in London who translated the second and this third edition and who has also contributed to the clarity of the text and its representation with numerous suggestions. As for all previous editions Tanja Rth again edited the diagrams for this present edition. Lea Baumstark prepared the tables and, together with Roland Schmalzl, supported me in typing the additional texts. Last, but not least, I owe thanks to my publisher Springer Verlag for publishing this voluminous book in its third edition. Munich, October 2012 Erich Hau