19.2.5 Design Features and Manufacturing Costs;Analysis of the manufacturing costs of a conventional wind turbine installation with transmission gearing between rotor and generator and of a gearless turbine shows that, although there are no serious differences in the sum of the component costs, the break down into the different components is completely different. And other design features also have a distinct influence on the component costs.;The cost of the rotor blades is proportionally about 25  of the component costs (Fig. 19.10). The mechanical drive train and the nacelle amount to 32 . In the electrical system there is a considerable difference between a simple, fixedspeed asynchronous generator with direct grid coupling and much more elaborate, variablespeed generator systems with frequency inverter. Whereas the total electrical equipment based on a simple asynchronous generator represents a share of not quite 10  of the component costs, a 15  cost share must be expended for a variablespeed system as in the example shown. Naturally, the costs for the tower vary with its height. The tower height of 80 m, assumed in the example, i.e. slightly more than the rotor diameter, results in tower costs amounting to 24  of the component costs. This share increases to over 35  for higher towers, for example of 120 m. In view of this cost distribution, the efforts to lower the manufacturing costs promise success only if the entire wind turbine system can be constructed and produced more costeffectively throughout.;In all the gearless turbines, the focus of the production costs shifts to the electrical part of the turbine, primarily to the generator itself. It must be noted though that the genera tor also includes the usual mechanical drive train. The generator bearing is at the same time the rotor bearing and the loadbearing structure of the generator rotor and stator largely also handles the loads which are otherwise absorbed by components independent of the electrical generator. Functionally and with regard to the manufacturing costs, the generator is thus a generatordrive train unit. This fact becomes clear from the break down of the manufacturing costs for a typical gearless turbine (Fig. 19.11).;The old question of how much cost can be saved by changing to a twobladed rotor shall also be addressed at this point. Unfortunately, there are only few turbines with twobladed rotors which can be compared with the current turbines with threebladed rotor. The costs of the older, large experimental turbines with twobladed rotors are no longer relevant today so that no comparison is possible on this basis, either. Instead, it is only possible to use the results from the theoretical investigations discussed in Chapter 19.1.2, where a tower head mass which is lower by about 20 to 25  was calculated for turbines with twobladed rotors. It can thus be assumed that the component costs can