3.2 HORIZONTAL AXIS ROTORS 69until the beginning of the nineties 3 (Fig. 3.3) but the development was halted then since there was no economic success in sight. Occasionally, the Savonius design is used for small, simple wind rotors, especially for driving small water pumps. It is not suitable for electricitygenerating wind turbines due to its low tipspeed ratio and its comparatively low power coefficient. With an optimised aerodynamic design, the Savonius rotor can also make use of aerodynamic lift and its maximum power coefficient is then of the order of 0.25 (Chapt. 4.2). Apart from these concepts, a number of proposals for verticalaxis rotors with a great variety of geometries are known, for example with blades in a Vshaped configuration and tilted rotor axis. The inventors expect this to be a particularly simple and inexpensive design but it remains to be seen whether these hopes will be fulfilled. Moreover, rotor designs such as these inevitably have a much lower power coefficient, which, in turn, has economic repercussions despite the potentially lower installation costs. Altogether, it can be said that wind rotors with vertical axes and among these primarily the Darrieus rotor, might still have a potential for development which has not been exhausted yet. Whether the basic advantages of this design can prevail over its disadvantages and whether it will become a serious rival to the horizontalaxis rotors cannot be foreseen for the longterm. In any case, this will still require a relatively long period of development.;Wind energy converters which have their axis of rotation in a horizontal position are realised almost exclusively on the basis of propellerlike concepts (Fig. 3.4). This design, which includes European windmills as much as the American wind turbine or modern wind turbines, is the dominant design principle in wind energy technology today. The undisputed superiority of this design to date is largely based on the following characteristics; In propeller designs, rotor speed and power output can be controlled by pitching therotor blades about their longitudinal axis (blade pitch control). Moreover, rotor blade pitching is the most effective protection against overspeed and extreme wind speeds, especially in large wind turbines.;Figure 3.5 shows the schematic arrangement of a horizontalaxis wind turbine. The;Figure 3.5 shows the schematic arrangement of a horizontalaxis wind turbine. Thecomponents and their configuration are typical of a large modern wind turbine. Naturally, designs differing from this standard concept are also possible and constructional simplifications such as the absence of pitch control can be found, particularly in small wind turbines.