If the wind speed drops below the minimum operational wind speed (cutout wind speed) or if operation under load is to be interrupted, the rotor will be brought to the standstill position again. During the shutdown process, the rotor blade is pitched in order to achieve a defined speed decrease. The generator must be taken off the grid which takes place within the range of 92  to 90  of the rated speed.;If the wind speed is no longer sufficient for maintaining operation or if the operation is to be interrupted for a relatively long time, the turbine is returned to its standstill posi tion. Rotor standstill is achieved by setting the speed set point value to zero. The rotor blades are pitched to an angle of approximately 80 to 90 degrees. This breaks the rotor aerodynamically down to a low residual idling speed. Complete standstill is achieved by applying the mechanical rotor brake. After reaching the standstill condition, the turbine is ready for a new operating cycle.;The operating cycle described cannot claim to be representative in detail. The sequence of the operating cycle is simpler in smaller turbines. However, the essential operating phases and sequences are similar as long as the turbines have blade pitch control. Even simpler, of course, is the operating cycle in the case of rotors having a fixed pitch angle.;The safety system, which operates independently of the control system and operational sequence control, gathers a multiplicity of data which relate both to the operational state of the turbine and to status signals of certain components. The most important data are  rotor overspeed,  excessive generator power or torque,  unusual vibrations in critical components,  exceeding of permissible operating temperatures of critical components (e.g. gear;The safety system, which operates independently of the control system and operational sequence control, gathers a multiplicity of data which relate both to the operational state of the turbine and to status signals of certain components. The most important data are  rotor overspeed,  excessive generator power or torque,  unusual vibrations in critical components,  exceeding of permissible operating temperatures of critical components (e.g. gearbox and generator),; limit values of electrical values associated with feeding into the grid,  malfunction of power and speed control,  unacceptable cable twisting. The safety system is based on failsafe circuits, i.e. in the case of a fault, the open switches automatically drop into a safety position and trigger the appropriate safety systems. Apart from the automatic circuits, manually operated emergency stop switches should also be provided at all important workstations for the maintenance personnel. IEC Standard 614001 contains some further notes and requirements for the design of the protection system. For example, after an emergency stop of the turbine,