If one tries to draw a conclusion from the experience gained with the first large windturbines of these years, essentially two reasons for their lack of success will emerge all of the wind turbines described bore the hallmarks of improvisation to a greater or lesser extent. In practical operation, numerous problems and faults had to be dealt with not all of which originated on the technical side alone but which were also due to poor organi sation. All in all, this situation led to relatively modest energy yield values despite the fact that some of the wind turbines were in existence for many years.;The real reason for the discontinuation of these developments, however, is to befound in the overall energy situation of these years. Due to the extremely low prices of primary fuels, electricity from the wind had no chance economically. This technology had no way of lifting itself out of its position as outsider under the given circumstances, a position which seemed rather bizarre to most contemporaries in any case. Accord ingly, the operators were not highly motivated to invest new funds in order to overcome technical difficulties.;Occasionally, when the subject of energy is being discussed, one can still see television pictures of empty roads and freeways on the socalled carfree days in 1973. What had actually happened was that the price of crude oil had risen to a multiple of its original price within a few months and the Western industrialised countries were suddenly made aware of their dependence on this economically vitally important primary energy source. Suddenly, everyone spoke of an energy crisis.;In retrospect we know that the actual problem was not the availability of the oil but its increased costs and, above all, the awareness of how dependent we were on the oil exporting countries, the political stability of which could not be assessed to any degree of certainty. The primary aim was, therefore, to reduce our dependence on oil as a primary energy source. In 1973, the problem of environmental pollution due to the excessive combustion of oil scarcely figured yet in public discussions. The terms energy crisis and environmental pro tection were not yet quoted in one breath as they are today and it took another ten years for this theme to be accorded any importance.;The oil price shock of 1973 initially triggered a fierce public debate about how thedependence of the Western economies on oil imports could be reduced. In addition to energy saving measures, the popularity of which is still limited despite all protestations to the contrary, the politicians turned their attention to the search for other energy sources. In particular, the utilisation of renewable energy sources  i.e. of solar energy in its various forms  was discussed in countless studies and working groups and increas ingly the aspect of environmental protection in the years to come.