10.4 VARIABLE SPEED GENERATOR SYSTEMS WITH INVERTER 413characteristics of the synchronous generator can also be used in wind turbines. The only disadvantage are the costs for the full power inverter.;WKA60 wind turbine which was capable of isolated operation (Fig. 10.28). Here, too, a synchronous generator with a static converter, which had been derived directly from the shaft generator of a ship, was used. The turbine was installed on the German island of Heligoland. For the first time, a large wind turbine with a rated power of 1200 kW was operated in the comparatively small island grid with a maximum load of about 3000 kW. The main power source in this grid are two diesel generators each with 1800 kW of power output 9.;The generator system of the wind turbine had been designed for a relatively widespeed range to achieve extensive smoothing of the power output. Smoothing of the power output was necessary to facilitate the control interaction with the diesel genera tors. In addition, the wind turbine had been equipped with a rotating phase shifter, which provided for complete reactivepower compensation over the whole power output range. The harmonics produced by the inverter were largely filtered out. Thus, the tech nical complexity and the costs for such a variablespeed generator system with full isolatedoperation capability were considerable.;10.4.3 Induction Generator with Oversynchronous Cascade;Another possibility for implementing a variablespeed generator is to influence the slip in the induction generator, as already mentioned. If it is possible to make use of the slip power, normally lost, the turbine can be operated over a larger speed range without great losses in efficiency. Feedback requires a simple link circuit consisting of an uncon trolled rectifier and a linecommutated AC inverter (Fig. 10.29). This concept, however, only permits power delivery from the rotor via the static converter to the grid, a verse flow of power is not possible because of the uncontrolled rectifiers. The generator can,