Verticalaxis rotors rotate at a slower speed and their power must therefore be gener ated with higher torques. This is one of the main reasons why these rotors have a rela tively high weight, and their production costs are correspondingly higher (Chapt. 17.3). The lack of a generally accepted assessment of the aerodynamic efficiency of the ver ticalaxis rotor is a clear indication of its state of development. It lags behind the hori zontalaxis design not only in terms of aerodynamic calculation but also other areas such as vibration al behaviour and control. If the verticalaxis rotor, hampered by its basic drawback of needing high torque for power generation, is to compete with hori zontalaxis wind turbines it will still have to undergo a longer period of development until it reaches commercial maturity.;The discussion of aerodynamic rotor performance and loading up to this point has been based exclusively on theoretical model concepts and calculation methods. The question of how accurately these theories reflect real conditions still remained open. Naturally, the answer to this question depends on the possibilities of verifying these theoretical results by experimentation and measurement. It is difficult to carry out aerodynamic measurements on wind turbines for a number of reasons. Without a lot of technical equipment, aerodynamic parameters can only be meas ured very indirectly, e.g. via the electric power output. Moreover, there is no definite ref erence wind speed in the free atmosphere. Moreover, suitable flow conditions cannot be produced to order and the wind unfortunately blows whenever and however it likes. One way out of these difficulties is to follow the example of aeronautics and use the wind tunnel.;5.9.1 Measurements on Models in the Wind Tunnel;The traditional measuring instrument in experimental aerodynamics is the wind tunnel. Aeronautical aerodynamics would be inconceivable without wind tunnel measurements. However, for several reasons, carrying out wind tunnel measurements on large wind ro tors or even entire wind turbines involves certain difficulties. Due to the large size of the wind turbines, it is not possible to carry out measure ments on real rotors in the wind tunnel. Even the largest existing wind tunnels, with a crosssectional measurement area of approximately 10 x 10 m, are too small. Model measurements can only be carried out at a scale where it becomes difficult to achieve useful Reynolds numbers, to say the least. Moreover, the constant and even flow condi tions in the wind tunnel are an extreme simplification compared to the free atmosphere. Despite these restrictions, wind tunnel investigations are of useful service also to wind energy technology as long as the model measurements in the wind tunnel are carried out for solving specific questions and by using the right means. There are two different tasks to be considered in this context one is measuring rotor power characteristics, the other is simulating the dynamic response of the rotor or of the entire turbine during