14.1.3 Efficiencies in the MechanicalElectrical Energy Conversion;These losses depend on the conceptual design of the wind turbine and the efficiencies of the components. But there is also an influence of the size of the wind turbine and the rated power. Small wind turbines in the power range of several ten kilowatts may not be compared with wind turbines in the Megawatt power range. Small gearboxes and elec trical generators are of much simpler design, thus their efficiencies are lower.;Using the experimental WKA60 turbine as an example, Figure 14.6 shows the energy flow through the drive train at the rated power. Approximately 140 kW occurs along the way through the drive train to the power line transformer. Moreover, an internal con sumption of approximately 34 kW must be taken into consideration which, in the case of the WKA60, is drawn directly from the grid. The comparatively high internal con sumption is explained by the fact that this experimental turbine is equipped with a num ber of measuring instruments and test facilities and that the auxiliary units are by no means dimensioned for minimum consumption. It must also be taken into consideration that not all loads are operated at the same time so that the value indicated only corre sponds to the theoretical peak value. The average value which determines the energy loss is considerably lower and can be expected in the range of about 1  of the energy yield.;Figure 14.7 provides an overview of the order of magnitude of the power losses inthe rotor power diagram, starting with the theoretically possible rotor power up to the effective electrical power yield. Starting with the envelope of the rotor power character istics, i.e. the aerodynamically possible optimum, the mechanicalelectrical losses in the drive train firstly reduce the power coefficient. In addition, a slight loss in power is produced by the selected constant blade pitch angle under partial load. In the fullload range, the permissible generator power limits the effective turbine power to a constant value. The power coefficients required for achieving the rated power decrease with increasing wind velocity. The associated power loss is comparatively large whilst the loss in energy yield is less since the higher wind velocities only occur comparatively infrequently. Taking into account these losses, the effective turbine power coefficients are obtained from the aerodynamically related rotor power coefficients. The variation of the turbine power coefficient with wind velocity forms the direct basis for the power characteristic of the wind turbine.