17.1 IMPORTANT TECHNICAL ISSUES OF OFFSHORE SITING 679into consideration are besides the normal water depth above sea bottom, the tidal range, the maximum wave height to be expected and sufficient clearance to the rotor (Fig. 17.1).;The loads to be taken into consideration in the strength and stiffness design of the struc ture in offshore use differ considerably from those on land in some points  The mean wind speed is higher.  The turbulence intensity above the open sea is less but a higher induced turbulencecan be expected in the array, depending on the wind turbine spacing (s. Chapt. 5.4).; The wave motion of the water is a new significant loading influence. This appliesboth to the extreme loads resulting from the socalled wave of the century and to the dynamic response of the structure to the periodic wave loads.;Baltic. In addition ice accretion on the turbine must also be taken into considera tion.;An important aspect is the superimposition of wind and wave loads in the load spectrum. It plays a role with regard to the fatigue strength in the dynamic design of the structure. This affects primarily the tower structure and the foundation whereas the wind loads as before almost exclusively affect the rotor and the mechanical drive train. Simi lar to wind turbulence, the wave loading is taken into consideration in the design of the structure in accordance with the method of variation with time or spectral method. The approaches by PiersonMoskovitz or Gonswap are frequently used frequency spectra 2. It is noteworthy that the sum of the superimposed load spectra of wind and waves can be less than when the individual observations are added together independently. The reason lies in the aerodynamic damping of the running rotor that damps the excitation due to the wave motion similarly to the way in which the sails of a sailing vessel damp the motion of the ship when there are waves 3.;The excitation of vibrations and thus also the dynamic loads imposed by the wavemotion are closely related to the size of the turbine. The decisive frequencies become lower with increasing size. With rotor diameters of over 120 m, the exciting frequency of the rotor and the first natural bending frequency of the tower has a value of about 0.3 Hz or lower. The dynamic loading from wave motion is dominant in this case.