In order to avoid the situation of the drive motors having to absorb the yawing moment after a completed yawing operation, a yaw brake is required unless special yaw drives with integrated braking function are used. Otherwise, it would not be easily possible to guarantee the life span of the drive units or of the upstream gears. Smaller turbines usually make do with yaw damping in the azimuth bearing.;Two or more yaw brakes callipers are common in larger turbines. These act on abrake ring on the inside of the tower or conversely on a ring in the nacelle. During yaw ing, one or two brakes are in operation to provide the necessary damping of the yawing dynamics. The yawing drive must be dimensioned so that it can yaw against this fric tional damping. In larger turbines, the azimuth drive is positively locked in position for extended standstill periods, for example for maintenance. This job is handled by one or several locking bolts.;Yawing the nacelle into the wind requires a special control and operating logic. Yawing control is described in greater detail in Chapter 11.2.;The production of wind turbines is carried out as conventional series manufacture with quantities of several hundred turbines per year. Having said this, the turbines are still assembled in batches (Fig. 9.72). A genuine assemblyline mass production with auto matic production machinery can be considered only when higher quantities are being produced. The future will have to show if such a production technique is appropriate for wind turbines. Nevertheless automation in the manufacturing process also takes place in wind turbine manufacturing in particular for the welding.;A further question is to what extent the drive train with the nacelle can be subjectedto a functional check in the plant after its assembly. In the case of large turbines there are narrow limits set for this facility. Solving the question of a drive for such a test stand alone requires large investments which is why preassembly and functional testing of subsystems is considered to be adequate which is advantageous for economic reasons. Particularly in the development of gearboxes the manufacturers increasingly invest in large test bed installations (Fig. 9.73). The bad experiences with numerous gearbox failures in the past motivated this development. More complex assembly and testing processes such as the alignment of the drive train and of the generator have to be done on site, even if they are timeconsuming and expensive, especially if the drive train is of the spreadout type of construction.;Checking the complete drive train is still possible in the case of small turbines. Figure 9.74 shows a performance and acceptance test stand for a small wind turbine. In the test setup shown, the drive train is powered by a variablespeed electric motor on the rotor side. Mechanical functions such as rotor blade pitching, emergency pitching of the