18.6.2 Monitoring of Large Wind Parks;Operating a larger wind farm with twenty wind turbines or more imposes additional requirements on the operational organisation, apart from the functioning of the individ ual turbines. If all turbines are operated in parallel with the grid, an overall monitoring system is actually not required. Just like a standalone wind turbine, each individual turbine, with its autonomous control and monitoring system, is capable of automatically stepping through the entire operating cycle, involving all required operating conditions from standstill to emergency shutdown, without any overall control system. Economic reasons, however, suggest a central monitoring where there is a larger number of tur bines involved. In a wind farm comprising fifty wind turbines, it is not rare to find that distances of up to ten kilometres must be overcome from the first to the last wind tur bine due to the minimum distances between turbines required for aerodynamic reasons. A central monitoring system is extremely useful under such circumstances.;To monitor and control the operational sequence of large wind farms, specialmonitoring and data evaluation systems were developed which combine the data of the individual turbines in a suitable manner. This makes it possible to display the power characteristics of the entire wind farm, and also to exercise a type of higherlevel se quence control. The aim is to optimise the power generation and energy delivery of the entire wind farm under various external boundary conditions, for example due to restric tions with regard to grid infeeding. The data are evaluated from the most varied aspects which also include industrial management aspects like, for example, the accounting for the electricity infeed with different tariffs at different times of the day. A software pack age tailored to these tasks has been on offer under the name of SCADA for more than ten years and is being used in numerous wind farms 5.;Large, older wind farms often still have a large visual monitoring board of the typeprovided in conventional power stations (Fig. 18.43). A large mimetic diagram repre sents the spatial arrangement of the wind farm. Visual indicators enable the operating state of the turbines to be assessed at one glance. This monitoring board is usually ac commodated in an operating building together with other operational equipment and a minimum of comfort for the staff.;It is certain that the higherlevel sequence control and management of large windfarms and possibly even the operational combination of all wind turbines in a particular region will gain greater importance in the future. As soon as the utility companies are ready to take into consideration the generation of power from wind energy in their ap plication planning for the conventional power stations, higherlevel sequence control will become indispensable (the socalled virtual power station). In Denmark, the first beginnings of this can be seen already in the area of the Elsam electricity supply under taking.;On the other hand, the individual control systems of the wind turbines are becomingmore and more intelligent so that the wind turbines themselves can respond to exter nal events or states of the grid without any central control system (s. Chapt. 10.5.2) Against this background most of the commercial wind park operators do without a costly monitoring board and building.