Measuring the wind speed is necessary for controlling the operational sequence in order to switch between different modes of operation. Motorised yawing also requires information about wind direction. Small turbines may under some circumstances do without the measurement of these two parameters. The prerequisite for this is a passive, aerodynamic yaw system and an operating mode which uses the electrical power gen erated as an indicator of wind speed.;Power and rotational speed control is carried out without direct wind speed measurement, as already mentioned. An attempt to measure wind speed and to use this fig ure as a direct input value for control leads to considerable problems. Wherever the wind speed is measured, no single value is ever representative of the power generated by a large wind rotor sweeping an area of several thousand square meters. The inevita ble consequence would be a wrong response by the rotor speed or power control. To avoid these difficulties, it is better to measure wind speed indirectly by means of the electric power output. The rotor itself is the only representative wind measuring in strument of a turbine.;The locality of the wind measurement needs to be chosen carefully since the air flow in close vicinity of the turbine is influenced considerably by the turning rotor. This means that the true wind speed is measured correctly by a sensor close to the rotor plane only when the rotor is at a standstill. If the turbine is started up too early on the basis of this signal, the wind speed is retarded by the rotating rotor and the turbine is switched off again if the retarded wind speed is then below the cutin speed again. If the wind speed is just barely above the cutin wind speed, this process could repeat itself any number of times.;If the measurement of wind speed and direction must not be influenced by the rotor,a point of measurement behind the rotor plane would have to be more than ten rotor diameters away. Apart from the fact that this would require the setting up of a separate mast for wind measurement, it would by no means provide a more accurate wind measurement. One single point of measurement, and at a considerable distance from the turbine at that, does not provide an aerodynamically representative value for the rotorswept area. Wind measurement in front of the rotor plane does not solve this problem, either. Although the retardation of the air flow by the wind rotor upwind is not as perceptible as in the wake, it is still large enough to corrupt the result in the immediate vicinity.;Considering the above, it is understandable why the operational wind measurement,regardless of the corruption of results in the immediate surroundings of the rotor plane, is usually taken on the roof of the nacelle (Fig. 11.2). At some earlier wind turbines, the anemometer was mounted on the tower, below the rotor radius. Whichever way, accu rate wind speed measurement is not feasible. However, practical operation does not require an accurate wind measurement, as long as the discrepancy caused by the rotating rotor is known with some accuracy and is taken into consideration in the processing of the data obtained.