The assessment of the performance of a wind turbine is frequently a cause of heated discussion. As is the case with all systems which utilise solar energy, the parameters borrowed from conventional energy technology are only applicable to a limited extent. In contrast to conventional energy generation systems, the rated power of the electric generator of a wind turbine is of less significance. This fact cannot be pointed out often enough, as it is the source of many a misjudgement concerning this technology. This especially applies to many users who are used to thinking only in terms of kilowatts.;The correct measure of the economic value of a wind turbine is the energy it yieldson the basis of its power characteristics with a given wind regime. As in other systems for the utilisation of solar energy, too, this is primarily determined by the size of the energy collector, the rotorswept area in this case. A wind turbines size and perform ance must, therefore, be assessed in accordance with its rotor diameter and not accord ing to its rated power. Primarily, the installed generator power also has an influence on the energy yield, but to a lesser degree. With a given rotor diameter, the design task, therefore, consists of maximising the turbines power output over the entire wind speed range. The rotors aerodynamic design, the control and operational sequence systems, the maximum installed generator power as well as the efficiency of the mechanical electrical chain of energy conversion must all be optimised with this goal in mind.;The electric power output versus the wind speed, the socalled power curve, is the result not only of the technical characteristics of the turbine but to a certain extent also of the wind data forming the basis of the turbine design. Against the background of the design wind regime, the optimum rotor speed and also the most favourable rated generator power can be selected. Considering this aspect, the wind turbine here, too, turns out to be an environmentrelated energy generation system the technical design of which must be adapted to its environmental conditions.;In this chapter the main steps in the calculation process are outlined. Following theinfluence of the essential design parameters on the performance of a wind turbine are discussed in more detail. For this purpose the example of a 3 MW wind turbine with a rotor diameter of 100 m has been used. Its design and performance characteristics corre spond to the state of the art.