460 CHAPTER 11 CONTROL SYSTEMS AND OPERATIONAL SEQUENCErestarting should no longer be possible without a system check and the turbine has been personnel. IEC Standard 614001 contains some further notes and requirements for the design of the safety system. For example, after an emergency stop of the turbine, re starting should no longer be possible without a system check and the turbine has been released for operation. It is also required that in the case of a conflict with the instruc tions of the control system, the safety system shall overrule the control function in either case.;The safety system is generally constructed using hardwired circuits without havingto rely on computers and relatively complex software. The rotor speed, in particular, must be recorded independently of the control system by means of an electro mechanical sensor system with multiple redundancy. The hardwired failsafe circuits combine a number of normally open relay contacts, which are held close when every thing works correctly. In the case of a detected fault, these contacts are lost and the safety system will be activated. It brings the turbine in a safe condition.;The safety system primarily activates the braking systems for the emergency rotorstop. In the case of large turbines, this can only be done by applying an aerodynami cally effective measure at the rotor. In addition, other safety measures such as electrical disconnection from the grid and activation of the mechanical rotor brake are also acti vated (s.a. Chapt. 9.5.5 and 18.8.1).;The control system of a wind turbine includes a variety of sensors, actuator elements, decentralised controllers and processors, cable connections and higher order computers including the software. It is also connected with the controllers of the auxiliary sys tems, like heating or ventilation systems. Therefore the constructional implementation of the control system is split in several functional areas (Fig. 11.20). It normally con sists of a central computer located in the tower base, a control and switch cabinet in the nacelle, and several decentralized controllers. The intelligence of the overall control system is located in the central computer (master computer). Here the setpoint values are generated for the functional areas and the remote monitoring system is connected. In the control cabinet of the nacelle (slavecomputer) the signals from the decentralized controllers are processed and the results transmitted to the central computer by means of a databus system. There is general tendency to decentralize detailed control logics and the corresponding hardware in several locations.;Almost all the blade pitch control functions, from data acquisition through the control itself and to monitoring of the parameters, are largely autonomously handled by the so called pitch boxes. The signals will be transferred to the nacelle by means of a slip ring connection. Similar decentralized controllers are used for the yaw system.;The components of the control system become more and more standardized. Numerous suppliers offer the hardware as well as software packages for standard situations. The control algorithms can be adapted to the specific requirements of the wind turbine. The communication is performed by real time databus connections, for example (PROFI BUS, Ether CAT).