14.7 MAJOR DESIGN FEATURES AND ENERGY YIELD 597continuous speed variation. On the other hand, this concept does not bring about a re duction in the dynamic loading or a smoothing of the power output as these turbines are operated with two fixed speeds on the grid.;14.7.4 Power Control Blade Pitch Contra Stall;A frequent question with regard to wind turbines without blade pitch control is whether blade pitch control has advantages compared with stallcontrolled turbines with respect to energy yield. There is no generally applicable answer to this question since both methods have positive and negative features in this respect.;Rotors with a fixed blade pitch angle have the same disadvantage in the partialloadrange and are not operated at the energetically optimal rotor speed. Mainly in older wind turbines, a lower operating speed is often chosen in order to bring about the aero dynamic stall at the desired wind speed. The associated energy loss in old designs amounted to up to 20  of the aerodynamically possible optimum. For safety reasons, the aerodynamic flow separation in some cases sets in at such low wind speeds that power output also suffered in the fullload range. On the other hand, the generally high ratio of rated power to rotorswept area and the fact that there were no losses at low wind speeds due to inferior pitch control systems, were positive factors with regard to the energy output.;Wind turbines with blade pitch control have the advantage that they can be operatedat the aerodynamically optimal rotor speed. On the other hand, the strict limitation of the power capture to the given rated power entails a loss of energy, depending on the wind regime. The pitchcontrolled wind turbines are frequently designed with a relatively low ratio of rated power to rotorswept area for structural strength reasons. Moreover, the power control system does not always operate optimally all the time, particularly in small turbines. Especially at low wind speeds, some turbines tend to operate with undesirably frequent startup and shutdown sequences. Apart from the mechanical wear and tear, this also involves a degree of power loss.;Blade pitchcontrolled turbines cannot always be operated at their optimum in the partialload range. The usual method of operating with a constant blade pitch angle at partial load results in a certain loss of power and energy output. Depending on the aerodynamic design, this loss amounts to approximately 1 to 3  of the annual energy yield. More ad vanced control methods, therefore, attempt to operate with an optimum pitch angle adapted to the wind speed at partial load (adaptive control).;It is these characteristics which in each real individual case decide whether blade pitchcontrol or stall control is advantageous with respect to the energy output. Generally, given an optimal design and operational framework and the provision of a high enough rated generator power for the prevailing wind regime, blade pitch control provides better pre conditions for full exploitation of the energy potential.;The more recent wind turbines with blade pitch control are nowadays operated almost exclusively with variable speed. Variablespeed turbines achieve a higher energy yield than stallcontrolled turbines in every case. For this reason, the comparison be tween blade pitch control and power control by stall on the basis of a fixed rotor speed is actually no longer relevant.