584 CHAPTER 14 POWER OUTPUT AND ENERGY YIELDthe parameter of rated power per rotorswept area. Multiplying the indicated annual full load hours by the rated power provides the annual energy output. It must be pointed out again that this rough calculation of the rated wind speed and the energy output is only suitable for wind turbines of standard concept and design (pitchcontrolled and variable speed operation). If the prevailing conditions differ from the average, an accurate calcu lation must be performed, taking into consideration all the turbine data.;As a very rough estimation for wind turbines which differ from the standard design itcan be stated The earlier Danish wind turbines with fixed blade pitch angle and com paratively low rotor speed, which in some cases is below the optimum speed with re spect to energy yield, all achieved values which were lower by about 15 . The more recent turbines with power limiting by aerodynamic stall are operated at approximately the aerodynamically optimum speed and thus largely avoid this loss in power.;A reduction of about 5  must be taken into consideration for turbines with twobladed rotors. Turbines with blade pitch control of the latest generation and with yield optimized rotor aerodynamics (especially Enercon) achieve an energy yield which is 8 to 10  higher than the average conditions specified in the diagram.;In practical use, the highest possible energy yield is never achieved one hundred per cent. Maintenance, but also unforeseen repairs, cause periods of inactivity which lead to a reduced annual energy yield. How closely the turbine approaches to the theoretically possible operation time or, in other words, the extent to which it is available, is ex pressed by the term technical availability.;In the energy industry, the availability of a power plant is of vital significance. Forthis reason, the term of availability and the conditions implied by it have been defined very clearly 11. Availability characterises a power plants capability of generating energy or of performing any other operational function. Three different definitions of availability are used; Availability in time,  Availability of power,  Availability of energy.  The most important term used for thermal power plants is availability in time, as it can be defined and measured with the highest precision. It is directly linked to the systems techni cal reliability and low maintenance characteristics. In general, the published availability data always refer to temporal availability. For a thermal power station, the availability KT is formed from the available time TV and the nominal time TN