13.6.3 Numeric Models of ThreeDimensional Wind Fields;The penetration of wind energy utilisation into the inland regions with their much more complex topographical conditions in comparison with the open and flat coastal regions has made it clear that a more accurate determination of the wind data is necessary. The widely used method of the European Wind Atlas which is based on the conventional wind study or wind assessment shows distinct weaknesses at inland sites. These are basically attributable to two reasons;Against this background, numeric simulation models are increasingly used which, al though they are much more complex and, as a result, are also associated with high costs, do provide more accurate results. Such models are used in many areas of meteorology such as weather prediction, but also for assessing the spread of pollutants in the atmos phere. The basic concept of these simulation calculations is based on a digital three dimensional model of the orography including surface features. Onto this model, the wind field of the geostrophic wind is superimposed, which is not influenced by relief and surface features. The result is a threedimensional wind field which reproduces the influence of the shape of the terrain with its surface characteristics and manages without extrapolating to a greater height the wind speed of measuring stations close to the ground. Similar to the WASP method, a certain lack of certainty is given with the cor rect estimation of the nature of the surface. For this reason, a certain amount of experi ence is required when handling these models 11.;A model that has recently been used successfully for determining wind data, particularly in inland regions, is known by the name FITNAH. This is a socalled mesoscale model which can be used with a mesh size (spatial resolution) of between 25 and 50 m. Figure 13.32 shows the result of a wind field simulation for a region under examination with a size of 10 x 10 km. The annual mean of the wind speed is represented in a 200 m grid pattern. Using this information, the choice of site for wind turbines can be adapted very precisely to the considerable differences in wind conditions in the field under ex amination in a complex mountainous terrain, or the differences in energy yield of the individual turbines can be calculated if their sites have already been established.;The more accurate determination of the mean wind speed at rotor hub heights ofmore than 80 m is an important aspect which speaks for the use of such simulation models (see Chapt. 13.4.2). The models do not use the logarithmic height formula and, therefore, are not tied to the validity of this approach being restricted to the Prandtl layer. The economic significance of a precise knowledge of the mean wind speed at heights of more than 100 m for the utilisation of wind energy in inland regions is not to be underrated. The usual rotor hub heights are between 80 and 100 m there and will exceed the 100 m limit with the next generation of large turbines.