Today, freestanding tubularsteel towers are by far the preferred type of construction for commercial wind turbine installations, the main reason being the short onsite as sembly and erection time (Fig. 12.8). Under favourable conditions, even larger towers can be fabricated of one piece at the manufacturers and bolted to the foundation at the site. Higher towers of up to 100 m height are made of several sections which are bolted together so that no onsite welding is required. The preference for tubularsteel towers is also buoyed by the very low steel prices in the last twenty years.;Tower stiffness is characterised by several natural frequencies, but only the first and the second natural bending frequency and the first natural torsion frequency are of any prac tical significance (s. Chapt.11.4.1). In most towers, the first natural torsion frequency is much higher than the first natural bending frequency. The torsion frequency of free standing tubularsteel towers is approximately three times higher if their diameterwall thickness ratio lies within normal limits. It is, therefore, sufficient to use the first natural bending frequency for obtaining a rough overview. With a given tower height and head weight, the tower must be designed in such a way that the required first natural bending frequency is reached.;A stiff tower design is always a simpler and safer solution with regard to vibrationalbehaviour, but the mass of the tower required to achieve this becomes very high. In wind turbines with tower heights of more than 80 m, a stiff tower design can, therefore, no longer be realised in practice. For economic reasons, the stiffness should be kept as low as technically feasible.;For simple tower geometries, for example a cylindrical steel tube, dimensioningmodels were developed which permit the required wall thickness to be calculated by using relatively simple formulae, on the basis of the said load cases with a given height, tower head mass and the chosen stiffness concept of the wind turbine 3. These models are mainly suited to demonstrating the influence of the dimensioning parameters, thus helping to understand their significance with regard to tower optimisation. In reality, the calculated masses are often lower. Manufacturers increasingly tend to favour more complicated designs such as wall thickness varying in stages with diameter, or weight optimised tapered shapes to minimise the tower mass and thus the costs.;Figures 12.9 and 12.10 show the specific mass of freestanding tubularsteel towers,;Figures 12.9 and 12.10 show the specific mass of freestanding tubularsteel towers,referred to the rotorswept area, of various turbine sizes and concepts. The shaded areas in the diagrams are based on various simplifying assumptions. A tower height equal to the rotor diameter has been assumed. For two and threebladed turbines, different tower head masses have been assumed as a function of the rotor diameter according to the approaches in Chapter 19.4. The stiffness requirement, i.e. the towers first natural bending frequency in relation to the rated rotor speed, has been taken to be 1.5 P and 0.75 P (Chapt. 11.4.1).