Besides the technical faults mentioned other situations can occur, which can cause extra loads. The IEC standards and the regulations of DIBt include further references to those events.;The external loads acting on a system, and possibly also internal states of stresses, are transformed into material stresses through the dimensioning of the components. The required, loadbearing material crosssections are then decided by the permissible mate rial parameters. In the previous chapters the external loads and the circumstances where the loads act on the wind turbine were outlined. The logical next question is what stresses, deformations and stability problems the loads cause in the structure and the components of the wind turbine.;These are understood to be limit loads which lead to failure of the strength of the structure. They are primarily loads which trigger tensile stress, compressive strain and bending stress. Apart from this, there is also the socalled failure of stability in the form of buckling, for instance in thinwalled tubular steel towers, and kink in long, slender mechanical transmission elements, and, not lastly, the tilting of the entire sys tem.;Persistent, alternating stresses will lead to a fracture of material only after a certain period of time. Apart from the magnitude of the load, the number of load cycles within a given period, the design life, is of decisive importance here. The socalled Proof of Service Strength must be provided for this period.;Even if there is no structural failure, unacceptably large deformations of the compo nents may restrict, or render impossible, the operating capability of the system. De formation of the rotor blades is a typical example it can become so great that the blade tips have no more clearance from the tower.;There is no a priori answer to the question of which of these requirements determines the dimensioning of the various components of a wind turbine. It depends on the con ceptual design of the wind turbine and the design of its components. Nevertheless, for a common design there are experiences which can serve as reference values (Table 6.21).