19.2.3 Manufacturing Cost Calculation on the Basis of MassRelated Cost;If a mass model is available for the wind turbine, i.e. an analytical or statistical relationship between the component masses and the turbines most important parameters (rotor diameter, rated power, tower height etc.) or if the structural masses are known from the design drafts, the manufacturing costs can be estimated with the help of specific cost figures, such as these are used with good results in aeronautics and space technology.;Calculating the manufacturing costs with the aid of specific mass and cost figuresprovides reliable results only when the components or subsystems are defined in such a way that they are technically homogenous and can be characterised by one single spe cific cost figure. Moreover, the correct reference parameter must be selected. Manufac turing costs of structural components and machinery can be determined quite well by massspecific cost figures but mass is not significant where electrical components are concerned. In this case, power is the better reference. With regard to the technical ho mogeneity of the subsystems, the following areas which can be characterised by a spe cific cost value can be defined.;Only the rotor blades can be classified under this term, not the entire rotor. Design and manufacturing of rotor blades represent a technology similar to aircraft engineering. The manufacturing costs can be specified in weightrelated terms in kg. However, it is not the massrelated costs that are relevant with wind turbines, but the costs related to the rotorswept area, so that the parameter m2 plays a role in the cost model of the wind turbine. It is for this reason that twobladed rotors already have a cost advantage.;They are used for the fairing of the nacelle and some other lowload carrying parts. The specific costs are much cheaper compared to the highstrength composite structures.;In wind turbines, traditional mechanical machinery is represented by the mechanical drive train including the rotor hub, blade bearings and bladepitch mechanism. The yaw system also consists of mechanical engineering components, as well as some auxiliary systems in the nacelle.;Steel structures comprise parts of the loadbearing structure of the nacelle and the tower (if this is a steel tower). With regard to the specific costs, however, there is a difference.