 Illumination in accordance with the rules at sea. The complete technical equipment of the wind turbines must be developed as an integral component of a comprehensive logistics and maintenance concept for the commercial offshore wind farms.;17.1.2 Foundation on the Sea Floor;The most far reaching adaptation demanded by offshore siting is associated with the tower design and its foundation on the sea floor. This structure, although it is generally called a foundation, is much more than a simple foundation as is found on a land site. At greater water depths, the required building work represents a significant component of the cost and may have considerable influence on the vibration characteristics of the overall installation.;From general offshore technology, a large number of designs are known which havetheir advantages and disadvantages depending on the depth of the water and the size of the structure resting on them. An attempt to provide a complete overview does not help much and is not required, either, since the technical solutions suitable for erecting wind turbines are restricted to a few designs 7.;The basic static principle of the foundation is characterised by whether the stability isguaranteed from the mass of the foundation body, i.e. where there is a gravity founda tion, or whether the structure is positively anchored in the sea floor, i.e. whether this is a deep foundation. There are today essentially three basic designs that are considered.;This type of construction has long been used for shallow water. A concrete caisson fabricated on land is floated and towed to the site where it is submerged and brought to the required weight by means of filling material (sand or gravel) (Figs. 17.2 and 17.3). The mass of a caisson for a 2MW turbine is about 1500 t (Middelgrunden) plus the mass of the filling material. Because of the high weight of the concrete structures, the use of steel boxes is occasionally also considered. In maritime regions with much ice motion (Baltic Sea), the part protruding out of the water should have a conical shape that is more advantageous with respect to the pressure of the pack ice.;Caisson foundations are the most costeffective solution in shallow water with a fewmetres depths. There is a rule of thumb which says that the mass  and thus also the cost  increases almost as a square of the water depth. For this reason, their use is restricted to a maximum water depth of 10 m. A further disadvantage is that the sea floor must be levelled and possibly reinforced so that more extensive underwater work is required.;With regard to the vibration characteristics, gravitytype foundations are stiff. Forthis reason, the aerodynamic damping of the rotor cannot contribute much to a softer response of the structure so that the load spectrum remains relatively hard with respect to the fatigue strength. A further environmentrelated aspect is the fact that the founda tion can be removed without much effort, in contrast to the deep foundations.