From the electrical engineering point of view, wind turbines are electricity generating power plants, like hydroelectric plants or dieselpowered plants. Their electrical systems are similar and must meet the common standards for systems connected to the utility grid. This re quirement mainly concerns the technical systems for safety, supervision and power quality. Moreover, the control system must be designed for fully automatic operation.;Although the electric generator is the heart of the electrical system, the complete system includes a multiplicity of electrotechnical and electronic equipment components. Apart from the general VDE safety requirements, the type and extent of the electrotech nical equipment also depends on the size of the wind turbine up to a certain degree.;In addition, the technical requirements set for the wind turbines by the power systemoperators are of significance. With the increasing number of wind turbines feeding into the interconnected grid, the supply conditions for parallel grid operation are becoming ever more strictly. Since 2003, it is especially the grid supply rules issued by Eon which have to be observed in Germany 1 (s. Chapt. 16.7.2). It is especially this set of regulations, which is also being adopted by other electricity supply companies, which determines the electrical equipment of todays wind turbines in numerous points.;The complexity and extent of the complete electrical equipment depends to a certain degree on the generator system and the conditions of use. A turbine with a simple con stantspeed induction generator operated in parallel with the grid requires less sophisti cated electrical equipment than a turbine with variablespeed generator and inverter which must meet the requirements of isolated operation. Regardless of these differ ences, there is a certain basic electrotechnical complement as can be shown in the ex ample of a turbine designed for variablespeed operation (Fig. 10.38).;In the example chosen, a seriesproduction synchronous alternator with an output volt age of 690 Volt was selected. The 4pole alternator has a nominal speed of 1500 r.p.m..;The inverter with ACDCAC link also consists of offtheshelf components but is cus tomised for this special application. The rectifier is in the nacelle and the inverter is in the base of the tower. Today in the most cases the entire inverter system is located in the tower base. The inverter needs a cooling system, which also has to be accommodated in the tower.