Table 19.26 shows a cost break down again for a 300 MW wind park projects consisting of 60 wind turbines in the 5 MW class. It is anticipated that the wind park can be connected, together with some other wind parks, in a distance of 10 km to an offshore collecting point of a future large transfer cable to the coast. The predicted specific costs of 3.650 USkW are significantly higher compared to the wind park near to the coast. The high costs for the large tripod or jacket foundations as well as the higher specific costs for the present wind turbines of the 5 MW class contribute to the high investment costs.;As a conclusion it can be stated that the specific costs for offshore wind parks near tothe coast in shallow waters are about 1.4  1.5 higher compared to similar installations on land (1700  1800 USkW) 5. The step into deeper waters, for example in the North Sea, further increases the specific investment costs by a factor of 1.4 in the calcu lated examples. However the high specific price of the first turbines in the 5 MW class have an important share on the turnkey investment costs. There is a realistic hope that the prices of these turbines will come down. The manufacturing costs certainly can be lowered with larger numbers produced. In the long run the cost relation of the offshore wind parks in deeper sea waters could be below 2 compared to wind parks on land with wind turbines of similar size.;Because of the lack of experience, the operating costs for offshore wind parks represent the greatest factor of uncertainty. The empirical values available until now can scarcely be used. All of these projects are still more or less pilot projects and are, therefore, still afflicted with numerous startup problems. The organisational structures for mainte nance and repair and for management, too, are still improvised and are in no way optimised. Neither can this be expected, considering the state of development of the offshore wind energy technology.;For the foundation structures and the electrical submarine cabling, empirical values are available from other offshore areas such as, for example, oil and gas conveyance. The wind turbines themselves are the actual problem. The costs for maintenance and repair will depend decisively on the extent to which the future offshore wind turbines can be made easy to maintain and, as far s possible, redundantly in their critical functional areas, such as, for example, their entire system of sensors, control and monitoring. The number of maintenance and repair dates should thus be as low as possible, given the restricted accessibility on the high seas.