(calendar time). In general, this is one year, corresponding to 8760 hours. The reference time is significant in as much as it is always easy to pretend high availability by using shorter periods of time. When comparing availability data, one should, therefore, ensure that the values indicated actually designate annual availability. The availability in time is the sum of the operating time TB and the standby time TR;The following figures illustrate the availabilities of energy yield commonly achievedby conventional power stations. In 1986, the overall availability of fossilfuel burning power stations in Germany amounted to 83 . Different types of power stations pro duced the following figures 12; Hydroelectric power stations ca. 76  The availability of a wind turbine is determined by two factors, the availability of thewind and the availability of the wind turbine itself. For this reason, the nominal time has occasionally only been calculated from those periods of time during which the wind speed was within the operating wind speed range of the turbine. This definition has proven to be impractical since it presupposes the existence of reliable wind speed meas urements independent of the wind turbine. Today, the nominal time is customarily re ferred to the full calendar time also for wind turbines. The assured availability in the guarantee time is defined analogously to the definitions of terms in the power station industry. The times which are not counted as nonavailability are the important factor in the contractual specifications; Times with wind speeds below cutin and above cutout wind speed,  Trivial standstill times for whatever reasons, e.g. of less than 5 hours per year.;Because of the difficulties to determine the relevant time periods for the operation of the wind turbines, more manufacturers prefer an energy based availability guarantee. In the overall warranty agreement which is part of the purchase agreement the conditions are described in detail. More or less sophisticated procedures are used for calculating the loss of energy yield in combination to a reference situation. In some cases the reference situation weights the nonavailability with the wind speed distribution on the site. In this