422 CHAPTER 10 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMand a central control unit in the tower. In addition, the generatorinverter system has an internal control system which is integrated in the inverter.;The instrumentation and control functions require a DC control voltage supply (24 V). There may also be a 220 V ACvoltage distribution system for the generator control system.;In current turbines, freely suspended torsionally flexible cables are used in the upper tower area. Twisting angles of up to 500 or 600 degrees are permissible with the appro priate lengths and fixings. For safety reasons, however, an automatic untwisting switch is necessary for when the permissible limit angle is reached.;Most of the commercial wind turbines have their own transformer which changes the generator output voltage of 690 Volt or 6 kV to a mediumvoltage level of 20 kV. The transformer of very large turbines can be installed in the tower base, but very often in a separate housing nearby the tower.;A feature of importance for its installation in the wind turbine is the cooling of thetransformer. The older transformers are mostly cooled with special oil. These oilcooled transformers are considered to be sensitive with regard to fire safety and can, therefore, not be installed in the nacelle, at least not in accordance with German regulations. They are in most cases housed in a separate container next to the tower.;In the meantime, however, drycooled transformers are being increasingly used, thewindings of which are cast in resin. The design is more compact and less susceptible to fire hazards. Today, the castresin transformers are installed either in the rear part of the nacelle (e.g. Vestas) or in the tower base (e.g. Enercon).;At high ambient temperatures, however, cooling the castresin transformers is notwithout problems so that they cannot be used for some installation sites or a powerful and costly cooling system in the tower becomes necessary. On the other hand in most cases a cooling system in the tower is necessary due to the increasing number of elec tronic systems.