Steel was the prevailing rotor blade material in the large test turbines built in the early eighties. This includes the rotor blades of the German Growian turbine, the American MOD2 turbine and the Swedish WTS75 turbine. Steel has extraordinarily high stiff ness values, whereas its breaking length has a comparatively low value. At 107 to 108 load cycles, the range of allowable fatiguestrength values is of the order of 50 to 60 Nmm. Fatigue strength thus becomes the dimensioning factor for steel designs.;The relatively low price of the material, as long as conventional nonalloyed steelwas used, the comparatively low production costs with conventional welding techniques and the wellknown material properties all spoke for steel. The development risks with regard to production were predictable. However, the deformability of steel remains a problem as far as production is concerned. Steel sheets for wall thicknesses of up to 20 mm can only with great difficulty be formed into the twisted shape of the rotor blades with their required aerodynamic airfoil crosssections. The choice is between making unavoidable cuts in the requirements for the desired airfoil accuracy and surface quality or making corresponding compromises in the selection of airfoil and degree of twist. Regardless of these problems, the rotor of the American MOD2 turbine was produced in allsteel monocoque (stressedskin) construction (Fig. 8.6).;This heavy twobladed rotor, weighing approximately 58 metric tons, consisted ofthree parts, the continuous centresection of the hub, the interior blade sections and the pitchable outer blade tips. The crosssection design largely corresponds to the Dspar design with an additional web in the rear crosssection area (Fig. 8.7).;Steelspar designs, where only the loadbearing spar is made of steel, were a variantof this type of construction. Although, strictly speaking, a design integrating steel and fibreglass composite material is a mixed construction, the load concentration on the steel spar justifies its classification as a steel design. The rotor blades of the Swedish WTS75 steelspar designs, where only the loadbearing spar is made of steel, were a variant of this type of construction (Fig. 8.8).;The rotor blades of the German Growian turbine were also an example of steelspar design. The steel spar was positioned here on the inside of the airfoil crosssection (Fig. 8.9). The crosssection of the spar box varied from a circular shape at the blade root up to an increasingly flat hexagonal crosssection. The external skin of the blades making up the airfoil consisted of fibreglass sandwiches of approximately 16 to 18 mm thickness. The fibres, in layers crossing over each other, were oriented so that the elongation properties of the external skin were compatible with the deformations of the steel spar. The rear area was stiffened by halfribs of fibreglass.;Despite its conventional material, the development and production of steel rotorblades posed several problems. Proper welding quality is in no way unproblematic con sidering the extreme load alternations. Allowable strength values must primarily refer to the strength limits of the welding seams. There were no binding standards specified for wind turbines. The Growian design was based on the slightly modified DIN standard 15 018. American manufacturers in some cases adhered to the AICE code. In Europe, the DIN standards have been reissued as the socalled Eurocode some time ago. In view of the high numbers of load cycles of up to 108, the permissible stress values have now been lowered distinctly compared with the older standards 2.