 Special attention must be devoted to the smooth running of the toothing. Particularly prominent gear meshing frequencies can cause resonances in the drive train. Cheap transmissions with simple toothing are unsuitable for use in wind turbines.; Oil leaks in the transmission are a particular problem. Labyrinth seals have provenmore reliable than slipring type seals. In many cases, the housing flanges also showed leaks after some time. A box design with a top flange is apparently more advantageous than gearbox housings with flanges on the input and output side.; The quality of the lubrication has been found to be a decisive factor for the servicelife of the gearbox. Oil temperatures which are too high cause just as much damage as does contamination in the oil. Oil coolers and filters are indispensible for large gearboxes and so is the careful observance of oil change intervals.;Modern gearboxes produce only comparatively small power losses. Nevertheless, the efficiency of the gearbox should not be completely ignored, particularly in a wind tur bine. Essentially, toothflank friction and oil flow splash losses are the main causes of power losses in the gearbox. They manifest themselves as heat and, to a much lesser extent, as noise emission. Heat can become a problem mainly in very compact planetary gearboxes, so that, apart from the surface cooling available in any case, additional cool ing systems become necessary.; Parallel shaft gear approx. 2  power loss per stage,  Planetary gear approx. 1  power loss per stage.  Due to their more sophisticated technology, larger gearboxes in the megawatt range generally operate with slightly better efficiency than smaller ones. An overview of the efficiencies to be expected is shown in Figure 9.49. As efficiency depends on the num ber of gear stages, attempts are increasingly made to make do with twostage transmis sions at least for small and mediumsized wind turbines. A twostage gearbox combined with a somewhat more expensive multipole generator operating at a lower speed may be a more effective configuration than a threestage gearbox paired with a twopole generator.;Apart from the gear ratio, the efficiency of a gear transmission also depends on thepower transmitted. However, the manufacturers of gearboxes are very reticent about publishing information about the efficiency versus load curves, making it necessary to rely on approximations with regard to efficiency under partial load. In the case of plane tary gears it can be assumed that about 50  of the power loss is nearly constant whereas 50  vary linearly with the transmitted power 16. A significant drop in