From about 2007 onward, the prices of important raw materials, especially of steeland copper, rose steeply. The deteriorating DollarEuro exchange rate did not help mat ters, either. As a consequence, prices increased steadily until about 2009. Steel prices reached a current peak in 2008 and then dropped back to the level of the years before 2007. Copper prices followed a similar course. On the other hand, the size of the tur bines and the demands on reliability and life of the components increased further with out the slackening technical advance being able to compensate fully for the resultant increase in costs. All of these factors are having an influence on the costs and the sales prices for wind turbines.;Figures 19.15 and 19.16. The figures come from official price lists of the manufacturing companies for the exfactory price. Experience has shown that when a relatively large number of units is purchased, for example in the case of orders for the larger wind farms, a volume discount is granted. 5 to 10  discount is quite common, so that in the individ ual case the costs may be lower than indicated in the statistics.;Differences due to the technical concept are not discernible. However a tendency ofthe specific prices rising with increasing wind turbine size in large turbines with rotor diameters of more than 80 m can be detected. Wind turbines with extra high efficiency (Enercon) are sold with higher prices. The higher selling prices are being justified by the higher performance but they are also caused by the higher manufacturing costs of such highperformance turbines.;As already outlined in Chapter 19.2.1, the specific price of wind turbines generally;As already outlined in Chapter 19.2.1, the specific price of wind turbines generallyincreases with increasing size (Chapt. 19.2.3). Up to a size of about 100 m in rotor di ameter it has been possible to a certain extent in practice to absorb this increase in spe cific construction costs, which has its basis in physical facts, by means of technical improvements, more efficient production methods and possibly also more accurate calculation methods.