In reallife operation these conditions will apply to a greater or lesser extent. Instead of completely isolated operation, there will be in many cases a weak grid. The turbine will then have to keep up with the grid frequency and to adapt its power output to certain load conditions of the grid. Speed control via blade pitching is possible only if the power supplied by the wind is greater than the power taken by the generator load. In isolated operation two areas of operation must therefore be distinguished; If the wind energy is less than the power demanded by the load (partial load operation), the rotor is usually operated with a fixed blade pitch angle. It must then be ensured that the energy taken by the load is reduced accordingly. This has to be done by a load management system by which the loads to be supplied are cut in or out of the supply.;A rough, but effective load management can be organized well if several loads areconnected and can be distributed over a number of load circuits (Fig. 11.15). These loads are cut in or out in accordance with predetermined priorities in dependence on the frequency. In combination with the faster blade pitch control, this results in a qual ity of supply which is also satisfactory for the more demanding loads, in electrical terms 7.;In autonomous, isolated operation, the electrical equipment of a turbine will generally have a synchronous generator since it is difficult to provide the exciter current for an induction machine. In the case that an induction generator is used, the reactive power has to be provided by capacitors. The reactive power depends on the frequency and the voltage, thus the usable rotational speed range becomes small. Several stepped capacitors require more control equipment.;Apart from the general possibilities discussed here, isolated operation with smallturbines exhibits a number of the most varied special control features depending on the requirements of the loads connected. Examples of this would be the use of wind tur bines for heating applications or for driving electric water pumps. These applications do not require a constant frequency, so that control will be simplified in this respect. Instead, the operating characteristics of the loads (power consumption or torque charac teristics as a function of rotational speed) must be taken into consideration in the con trol of the turbine. Under these conditions, the design of the control system must be individually matched to the overall system wind turbine with power consumer. It should be noted, that the interaction of the varying load with the varying power output of the turbine caused by unsteady wind conditions can lead to considerable power losses if the control is not optimal.;Variablespeed operation of a generator with downstream frequency converter offersthe best control conditions also for isolated operation. They can be used in combination with synchronous and induction generators. In the latter case the inverter provides the reactive power. However, isolated operation requires the use of a lineindependent self commutated frequency converter yet being much more expensive than a line commutated version.