18.4 ERECTION ON THE SITE 745economically feasible as their scope of application becomes wider with increasing num bers of turbines.;Wind turbines are generally erected under the mantle of responsibility of their manufac turer. The usual purchase contracts include transportation and assembly (s. Chapt. 19.1.11). Technically, the first requirement is a suitable foundation at the site and a base for the crane. The construction of the foundation is primarily dependent on the size of the turbine and to a certain extent on the nature of the ground (s. Chapt. 12.8). For the assembly of the turbine itself, very different methods are used. The determining factors are the height of the tower, the weights to be lifted and the lifting equipment available for this purpose. The accessibility of the installation site for heavy vehicles also plays a not insignificant role.;Modern commercial turbines having a tower height of up to 100 m are erected by using comparatively conventional lifting equipment. Their assembly is only just possible by means of mobile cranes of the 500 or 650t class. Suitable cranes in this class are not available as a matter of course, even in well developed regions. The reference values of Table 18.21 apply to the usual automobile cranes. Occasionally, socalled modular cranes are also used which need to be assembled only on site. Using these cranes, even greater weights and assembly heights can be managed.;Table 18.21. Characteristic values of mobile cranes (with top fencing) 4;The first step in the erection consists of assembling the tower, consisting of 3 to 5 sections depending on its height. The bottom section is screwed to the foundation after which the individual sections are placed on top of one another and are also screwed together (Fig. 18.22). The nacelle, having a weight of about 60  80 t in a 2 MW turbine, is lifted up in one piece and mounted (Fig. 18.23). After that, the rotor star is pulled up, also in one piece (Fig. 18.24). The method is well known and practiced by now so that a 2MW turbine can be erected within a period of about 10  15 hours, i.e. within one working day in the best