The brief discussion of the fundamental properties of synchronous and induction gen erators shows that both versions can really only be used without problems when they are combined with a drive unit which provides a steady driving torque at a fixed speed. But in a wind turbine rotor this, of all things, is not the case. Apart from simple syn chronous or induction generators, variablespeed generator systems with inverters are increasingly used in wind turbines for precisely this reason. These systems can be im plemented on the basis of either generator type.;Before discussing the different electrical systems in greater depth, however, it is useful to compile a catalogue of assessment criteria which can be used for assessing the different generator systems against the background of the different operating conditions, for example in parallel with the grid or in isolation. As usual, it becomes obvious here that there is not one solution, but that different generator systems appear to be advanta geous depending on what relative importance is given to the individual properties. The most important assessment criteria to be applied to electric generators or generator sys tems with respect to their suitability for use in wind turbines can be summarised by means of the following characteristics.;Coupling the generator directly to the fixedfrequency grid forces the generator to run at a constant speed. On the other hand, the wind turbine rotor wants to follow the varia tions in wind speed. In between there is the mechanical drive train of the wind turbine. High dynamic loads on the mechanical components and severe fluctuations in the elec trical power output are the consequences.;Reduction of the dynamic loads can only be achieved by allowing the wind rotorspeed a degree of freedom from the grid frequency, regardless of how this is realised, mechanically or electrically. One decisive question is what amount of speed variability is required to decisively reduce the dynamic load level. Answering this question re quires the consideration of a whole series of system properties of the wind turbine, such as the aerodynamic rotor design, the pitching rate of the blade pitch control and, if available, generator torque control, to name only the most important. Computer simula tions, but also empirical values from practical operation suggest that with a speed elas ticity of only 2  to 3  a lasting improvement can be achieved 4. A speed elasticity of this magnitude can be achieved via the slip of the induction generator.;Apart from speed coupling, the dynamic behaviour on the grid is also influenced bythe damping of any generator speed fluctuation about the grid frequency. Induction generators have much better damping characteristics than synchronous generators. They are, therefore, also dynamically less problematic with respect to their oscillatory re sponse, apart from the speed slip.