218 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSESalternating loads, must be sustained fully by the structure. This requires a stiff design with corresponding expenditure on materials. This primarily affects the rotor blades, but also the loads on the mechanical drive train and the yaw mechanism and the tower. If the rotor is additionally subjected to tower shadow effects, the load situation becomes even more unfavourable. Hingeless twobladed rotors should, therefore, not be set up in the downwind position.;Hinges permitting a limited flapping motion of the rotor blades were introduced as early as 1940 in SmithPutnams wind turbine (Chapt. 2.3). The main advantage of a rotor with individual bladeflap hinges is that it can evade symmetrical gusts, i.e. those strik ing the entire rotor area, as well as asymmetrical gusts.;One disadvantage of the flapping movement already became apparent in the turbinementioned above. The relatively large flapping movement of the blades shifted the cen tre of gravity closer to the rotor axis. The conservation of rotational momentum forced the blade, which was closer to the rotational axis, to accelerate its rotational movement about the rotor axis. The consequences were dynamically produced lateral forces and torques acting on the rotor shaft. In operation, a rotor with individual flapping blade movement would, therefore, be found to be running relatively roughly. In more recent wind turbines, a bladeflap hinge has only been used on experimental onebladed rotors.;The mechanical complexity associated with individual bladeflap hinges can be reduced by connecting the entire rotor to the rotor shaft by means of a single hinge. The rotor is thus able to perform teetering movements about the rotor shaft. A teetering hub of this type was used for the first time in 1959 by Ulrich Htter.;The teetering rotor responds to a symmetrical loading on the rotor in the same way asa hingeless rotor. Asymmetrical loads, however, can be balanced out. The teetering rotor results in considerable improvement, particularly as far as the cyclic loads caused by the vertical windspeed profile are concerned. The unfavourable yaw and pitch mo ments of the rotor disappear almost entirely. Installing a teetering hinge on a twobladed rotor achieves dynamic characteristics comparable to those of a threebladed rotor. Hence, twobladed rotors with teetering hubs and threebladed rotors with hingeless hubs can be considered to be genuine alternative concepts. The teetering rotor of the former large experimental turbines was the preferred design for the large twobladed rotors. However, the mechanical elements to enable the rotor to teeter proofed to be unreliable. In the future the load balancing of two blade rotors will be achieved by more sophisticated blade pitch control systems (see Chapt.10).