18.1 PROJECT DEVELOPMENT 721the communities is very important. Without a local basis it is nearly impossible to de velop a wind energy project.;Apart from the assessment of the wind regime and the acquisition of land lease contracts, other important preconditions have to be checked at the initial site selection. Access to the grid, transportation possibilities and a general review of the main envi ronmental considerations are the most important ones.;The formal legal procedures for erecting wind turbines have evolved over the last ten to twenty years. In the initial years, the procedures differed in the individual regions and had an air of improvisation which often presented the potential operator with consider able problems. Since the late nineteennineties, the licensing procedures have been legally restructured in most countries of the EU, the US and other major countries and require compliance with a large number of laws and public regulations.;In some regions maps have been in use for some years which designate certain areas for wind energy utilisation. These designations set up important boundary conditions. To fit the projects into this framework it is very important and requires close contacts to the responsible authorities. But the regional approvals cannot replace the individual permit procedure on the community level.;Before the project can be submitted for licensing by the relevant building authority, a certain amount of technical preplanning is required. The planning permission is plant related so that the technical plant must be defined and described at least roughly. This requires a first design of the wind farm with respect to its field geometry. In accor dance with the available areas, it is of particular importance that the prescribed mini mum distances from the surrounding buildings and countryside be observed. The major dimensions of the intended wind turbines must also be specified.;The formal procedure for obtaining a building permit is clearly regulated in most coun tries today. The problem lies in achieving a balance between the conflicting interests behind the formal licensing procedure. The project planners have the task of attempting to actively control this process and to accelerate it, if possible. This is the main cause of the long planning periods. As they are obliged to procure the environmental assessments required for the building permit, their role is mandatorily prescribed for them. With the reception of the building permission the first decisive objective of the project develop ment is achieved. The next steps include the detailed planning issues which are more or less routine tasks.