If wind power utilisation is to take a significant share in the overall supply of electricity, a number of questions arise in relation to the interaction of a large number of wind tur bines with conventional power stations. The problems are essentially focused on two aspects attributable to the same particular characteristic of power generation by means of wind power, namely the unpredictable, fluctuating way in which power is fed into the public utility grid.;Firstly, this could result in control problems in interaction with the conventionalpower stations. In the highcapacity interconnected grids of the industrial countries, this will become relevant only when wind power has attained a noticeable share of the sys tem load. Nevertheless, it is a problem. Secondly, the unpredictable nature of the wind power supply leads to the basic question of whether and to what extent wind turbines can replace other power stations.;These two questions suggest that largescale wind power utilisation is conceivableonly as an integrated component of the conventional energy supply system. This di rectly concerns the power producers, the utility companies. In the long term, they will have to incorporate wind energy generation into the capacity planning for their genera tion system of conventional power stations.;In Germany, it was Lorenz Jarras who first carried out extensive mathematical simula tions in 1981, with the aim of showing the possibilities and limits of the integration of wind turbines into the German public electricity supply system 20. As has always been the case in such investigations, the results are dependent on many kinds of as sumptions, and thus are not undisputed in some of the details. However, this subject is of decisive significance for the longterm prospects for wind energy utilisation and in some areas of Europe it is becoming an issue even today. For this reason, several essen tial aspects will be discussed here which will, however, require a small excursion into the technical organisation of public electricity supply systems.;Power plants with high capacity permanently operated at their rated power regardless of the instantaneous grid load. Nuclear power stations and large thermal power stations are typical baseload power stations. They achieve more than 6000 fullload hours per year. Their power output is regulated only over periods of days. From the economical point of view they are the power plants with the lowest electricity production costs, due to their high usage time. The utilities therefore give the highest priority to the use of the base load power plants as much as possible.