The conversion of the kinetic energy in the air stream flowing through the rotor is de termined by aerodynamics and by the type of lightweight design employed. Thus there are associations with aircraft engineering. A look into the nacelle provides a completely different picture. The components for converting mechanical energy into electrical en ergy represent conventional power plant technology, as it were. But a conclusion that this area would be stateoftheart and that it should, therefore, not pose any particular problems is not completely true.;It is correct to say that the mechanical transmission of power, the mechanical drivetrain, consists of conventional machine elements which are also used in other areas of mechanical engineering. For this reason, many components can be taken over relatively costeffectively from existing series production runs. For the manufacturer of wind turbines, these are vendorsupplied parts. On the other hand, the mechanicalelectrical conversion of energy in a wind turbine follows its own laws and presents its own spe cific problems. These are shaped by the special characteristics of the wind rotor as the prime mover. Both the unsteady torque caused by the characteristics of the wind and the bearing system for the heavy rotor assembly require intelligent design concepts, to avoid an unfavourable increase of masses in larger wind turbines. The design of the mechanical drive train is, therefore, by no means a conventional design task, but repre sentative of a technology where innovation lies in the field of systems engineering.;The term mechanical drive train encompasses all rotating parts, from the rotor hubto the electrical generator. These components form a functional unit and should, there fore, always be considered together. Technologically, too, they belong to the same cate gory of mechanical engineering. The electrical generator, however, is a part only in so far as its installation presents a mechanical problem in the drive train assembly.;The mechanical drive train and the electrical system are generally accommodated inside an enclosed nacelle. This nacelle must also house the yawing system and the tower head bearings. Its static design is closely associated with the constructional arrangement of the drive train components and particularly with the rotor bearing arrangement. Not least, the design of the shape of the nacelle is a task which must also be considered from an aesthetic point of view.