Apart from the turbulence of the wind, other, weatherrelated factors can also influence the power curve. Primarily, the icing of the rotor blades occurring at some sites can alter their aerodynamic profile to such an extent that the rotor power disappears completely (s.a. Chapt. 8.2 and 18). However, there is no sense in taking the influence of icing on the power curve into consideration since, for safety reasons, the turbine has to be switched off in cases of icing. The influence of strong, longerlasting rain, possibly also of snowfall, can have a more practical significance. There are some relevant studies 1 according to which a quite measurable power loss was measured in cases of rain. The cause is considered to be less the loss of impulse of the rotor due to the collision with rain drops but rather the change in surface roughness of the rotor blades due to the rain drops impinging and dispersing on the leading edge. As a result, the airfoil boundary layer becomes turbulent already in the nose area, with corresponding consequences for the airfoil performance (s.a. Chapt. 5.4.3). IEC Standard 614001 does not yet contain any specifications for measuring performance with rain.;14.3.5 Soiling of the Rotor Blades;After a certain operating period, the rotor blades of wind turbines more or less distinctly exhibit soiling phenomena. The extraordinary sensitivity to an increase in surface roughness of the laminar airfoils used was discussed in detail in Chapter 5.4.3. Soiled rotor blades can, therefore, be the cause of a considerable deterioration in the power curve. The dirt on the surface of the blades is produced with prolonged dryness and higher temperatures in summer. It consists of a mixture of fine dust and dead insect bodies which remain stuck to the surface at the leading edge, especially in summer, similar to the conditions on the windscreen of a car. This type of soiling is not only weather dependent but also depends on the site. Extreme conditions are observed in desertlike sites (California or also certain regions in Spain) where there is much dust in the air with the right wind in summer. In Germany, where the surrounding terrain consists of meadows and forests, there is much less soiling. The size of the installations or, more precisely, the height of the rotor above ground, also plays a role. The dust, and also the number of insects in the air, clearly decreases with tower heights of 100 m and more. With respect to the effects on wind turbines, stallcontrolled units with fixed rotor blades respond particularly badly to soiled rotor blades. Not only is the liftdrag ratio of the airfoils reduced but the onset of stalling is also shifted towards lower wind velocities, with the consequence of a drastic deterioration of the power curve. In Californian wind farms, only half the rated power has often been achieved in smaller stallcontrolled tur bines after prolonged operating periods in summer. The rotor blades had to be cleaned with great effort in relatively short intervals. Turbines with blade pitch control respond less severely to the increase in surface roughness of the rotor blades due to soiling because there can be no premature onset of stalling and the blade pitch control responds to the change in airfoil characteristics up to