402 CHAPTER 10 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMvia the direct current excitation of the rotor. Isolated operation of a synchronous genera tor is possible without any additional equipment for reactivepower compensation. These advantages, however, are balanced by a series of grave disadvantages. Only very small load angles are possible for compensating for the dynamic loads imposed upon the generator by the wind rotor. Large load surges, for example due to strong gusts, can cause a loss of synchronisation. The synchronous generator, in response to even small load peaks (for example tower shadow in the case of a downwind rotor, or even fre quency fluctuations on the grid), tends to produce oscillations which are only poorly damped. It is mandatory to take into consideration the generatorgrids characteristic frequencies in the dynamic behaviour of the gridcoupled turbine (see Chapt. 7.2.2).;In addition, difficulties arise with synchronisation to the grid, necessitating complexautomatic synchronisation equipment. The stiffness of the direct grid coupling results in a highly uneven power output of the wind turbine. Every wind fluctuation captured by the rotor is passed on to the grid without any smoothing.;Apart from difficult operating characteristics, the direct coupling of a synchronousgenerator to the grid results in high dynamic loads being imposed on the mechanical drive train. The American wind turbines of the first and second generation (MOD0, MODl and MOD2), for example, had synchronous generators which were coupled directly to the grid. The MOD0 turbines were equipped  in some cases retrofitted  with fluid couplings in the mechanical drive train, in order to achieve better damping and smoother power output (Chapt. 9.9). The torsionally compliant but undamped rotor shaft of the MOD2 also proved to be inadequate to attain complete mastery over the dynamic problems.;Successful use of a synchronous generator can, therefore, be achieved only with complex compliance and damping arrangements in the mechanical drive train. This requires a torsionally compliant and damped transmission, or, even better, a hydraulic slip coupling between gearbox and generator (see Fig. 9.47). Apart from those measures in the mechanical drive train an active electrical damping system in the generator itself has been proposed 4. This requires an extra field winding which would be controlled actively. But in view of the advances made in variablespeed generator systems, coupling a synchro nous generator directly to the grid is no longer a serious alternative in wind turbine tech nology. Regardless the problems mentioned before, some very recent developments use a direct gridcoupled synchronous generator in combination with a variablespeed mechani cal transmission (s. Chapt. 9.10).