17.2 OPERATIONAL ISSUES OF OFFSHORE WIND TURBINES 697structure prefabricated on land is more complex. Weather is a considerable risk factor for assembly. All currently known assembly techniques can only be carried out when the sea is quiet. The most important criterion is the wave height in this connection. Work becomes extremely difficult or impossible with wave heights of more than one metre so that a temporary interruption of the work has to be included in the calculations of the logistics.;It is a general accepted experience from the operation of the first offshore wind parksthat a largescale offshore exploitation of wind energy requires the development of specific logistic systems and procedures. It will be a conditio sine qua non for the future commercial offshore wind energy use.;Operating offshore structures at a distance of up to 100 km away from the coastline is basically nothing new technically. Numerous offshore structures have been operated in the sea for decades. The highly complex oil and gas delivery facilities, in particular, have contributed to the creation of an entire offshore industry. Naturally, this experience is also available to be utilised for building and running wind turbines in offshore regions.;The real problem is how to operate offshore wind turbines economically. The maintenance effort must not exceed a certain limit because operation would otherwise be come uneconomical. Maintenance and repair are hampered by a number of factors. The environmental conditions are much more severe than on land, particularly due to the salinity of the air, even if appropriate corrosion protection is taken into account in the design. The way from the service centres on land leads across the open sea, with all that entails for the cost of transportation and the time involved. Assembly work requires floating cranes which must be moved up over long distances. In all this, the weather plays a decisive role at sea.;17.2.1 Accessibility at Poor Weather Conditions;Accessibility of the wind turbines in rough seas is a considerable problem in the off shore siting of wind turbines, a problem which became apparent for the first time in the Bockstigen wind park situated about 12 km off the Swedish west coast. It turned out that it was not possible to reach the site and to dock on the towers of the wind turbines for more than two weeks at very bad weather conditions. Docking the maintenance boat proved to be extremely difficult even with waves of a height of just over 1 m. The consequence was long outage times due to only small de fects which, on land, could have been fixed within a few hours. It becomes obvious that this problem could have fatal economic consequences for commercially operated wind parks. Insurability against loss of production (interruption of operations) can be a crite rion for exclusion if no satisfactory solution can be found. Apart from severe conse quential damage, arising from relatively small defects which could not be eliminated within a suitable time, the loss of income caused by a longer standstill is an economic