As is normal, the selling prices do not reflect the production costs alone but also themarket situation. When the general economic conditions are advantageous for proceeds from power  or in some cases also promotional moneys are granted  higher selling prices will be found than in countries where the economic conditions for wind energy utilisation are narrower. It would be naive to assume that the industry would not re spond to the general conditions in its pricing. The worldwide boom in wind energy utilisation in recent years, in particular, had an effect on the prices.;When comparing conventional energy generation systems, the rated power is used as the significant parameter for indicating the specific performance of a system as a matter of course. Indeed, manufacturing and operating costs as well as the energy yield of reactors, turbines and motors are primarily dependent on the rated power. Accordingly, cost per kilowatt is the appropriate parameter for assessing profitability.;The situation is different with renewable energy systems. These systems must firstcapture a fuel with an extremely low density, i.e. solar radiation or wind, before they can convert it into usable energy. To a certain extent, this is also true of the conven tional renewable energy source of water power, if the buildings for collecting and concentrating water, the reservoirs, are included. This means, however, that the costs are determined by the size of the energy collector. The dimensions of the collector also determine the energy generation. A high rated power of the energy converter is only of benefit if the energy collector is capable of delivering the required volume of energy.;Thus, relating the manufacturing costs to the rated power of the energy convertersays little about the economic potential of renewable energy systems and may even be misleading in some cases. Instead, the size of the energy collector is the decisive refer ence parameter. Therefore, a wind turbine is characterised by the rotorswept area or the rotor diameter, respectively. This is primarily what determines the manufacturing costs and the energy yield. If meaningful specific costs are to be specified, they must be re lated to the dimensions of the rotor.;On the other hand, the manufacturing costs and the energy yield are not exclusivelydetermined by the rotor diameter. The tower height and the installed generator power play a certain role (Chapt. 14.4). The tower height is necessarily correlated with the rotor diameter. In a first approximation, the influence of the tower height is therefore included when referring to the rotor diameter. If the installed power per rotor swept area (Wm2) is within normal limits, the influence of the installed generator power can be neglected for the first approximation.