In recent years, utilising the wind energy offshore, that is to say siting wind turbines at sea off the coasts, has evolved from a onetime vision of the wind pioneers into reality. In this area, too, the utilisation of wind energy is progressing in leaps and bounds  regardless of all the sceptics. What are the motives behind this development?;On the face of it, it is often alleged that the necessary area required for further development of wind energy on land would limit this development within the foreseeable future. This is certainly so for some countries such as, for example, Holland, Denmark or Ger many. In general, however, this argument certainly does not hold water. In many countries, including some in Europe, the land areas suitable for wind energy utilisation have still not been utilised to their full extent by far. Exploiting the wind energy potential on land will remain dominant, therefore, for a long time.;Another argument for the offshore siting of wind turbines is the higher wind speedsavailable over the open sea. This argument, too, is correct and important but still not the decisive motive. According to presentday findings, the higher specific offshore energy yield is balanced by the higher construction and operating costs so that the economic perspectives do not necessarily have to be better.;A third argument for offshore wind energy utilisation is gaining increased significance in public discussions and appears to be becoming the actual engine for develop ment. Siting wind turbines at sea promotes the tendency to size for several reasons. The wind turbines suitable for offshore wind energy utilisation are becoming larger and larger and the projects are planned with wind farms of the magnitude of 1000 mega watts and more. Thus, offshore wind energy utilisation will reach an order of magnitude similar to power stations even in individual projects. This outlook is now also attracting the established electricity supply industry. In contrast to wind energy utilisation on land, which has been driven by private power consumers until the present, offshore utilisation appears to be becoming a domain of the large players again. The question whether this development will have consequences for the acceptance of wind energy utilisation in society will not be discussed here. However, it can be noted in this connection that, if the potential of offshore wind energy utilisation is exploited resolutely  and technical problems will certainly not be the cause of failure in this respect  the future offshore