The main distinguishing feature of blade pitch systems is the type of drive with respect to the power supply. The alternatives are hydraulic pitch actuators or electric motors. Hydraulic drives are still in the majority in older wind turbines but electric motors are increasingly found in more recent turbines. The reasons are the extended control possi bilities and precision of the newer electronically controlled pitching motors, and the avoidance of the leakage problems experienced with hydraulic units.;The design of the actuating elements depends on the selected drive units, on the onehand, and, on the other hand, on the arrangement of the blade pitch drive in the space of the nacelle or of the rotor hub. Hydraulic actuators acting directly on the blades are the simplest solution if they are drive units and actuating elements at the same time. If pitching drives other than direct actuators are used, it becomes necessary to effect the movement on the rotor blades via mechanical actuating elements (see Chapt. 9.5.2). This job can be handled by pitching shafts, toothed gearing or any conceivable linkage mechanism. In later, larger units, efforts are made to accommodate the pitch control mechanism as completely as possible in the interior of the rotor hub. Because electric pitch motors are installed in the rotor hub, the electric power has to be transferred from the nacelle to the hub via an electrical slipring connection.;The blade pitching drive must be supplied with power. The hydraulic power supply system of the blade pitching system is housed in a fixed position within the nacelle.;If, apart from the power supply, the actuator is also installed in a fixed position in thenacelle, the connection to the rotating hub can be implemented using mechanical parts. This can be done by means of connecting rods or rotary shafts passing through a hollow rotor shaft. These designs have the advantage that all parts of the blade pitching system requiring frequent maintenance are housed in the nacelle.;Wind turbines with blade pitch control can generally only brake the rotor by pitching the rotor blade to the feathered position. If the rotor loses all its load suddenly, say when the generator loses synchronisation, pitching the rotor blades to the feathered position must be done rapidly to prevent rotor runaway. Reliable operation of the rotor emer gency stop is of considerable significance in the design of the blade pitch mechanism. Thus, most turbines have an additional emergency drive system for blade pitching which operates more or less independently of the normal blade pitching system.;Enumerating the main components of the blade pitch mechanism shows that this is acomplex system. It involves both the rotor and the mechanical drive train. The blade pitch system is therefore one of the systemdetermining components of the wind tur bine, the design of which is inextricably linked to the overall concept of the turbine.