Before discussing the technology of the propeller type in more detail, some innovative concepts will be described, as they play a role in this discussion and some are also being tested in experimental programs. It is doubtful, however, at least in some cases, whether these wind power plants will ever achieve practical significance. The individual assessment of inventions in the field of wind energy is a thankless task and the author will, therefore, refrain from doing so in this book. The basic idea common to all these concepts is to increase the power yield in relation to the rotorswept area. Basically, this can be achieved by static, i.e. nonrotating structures which produce an acceleration in the flow velocity to the rotor or, in some cases, even generate concentrating vortices (Fig. 3.6). The intention is to achieve a drastic reduction in rotor size whilst at the same time hoping that the additional construction required for preconcentrating the wind energy will not become too expensive.;The simplest method for increasing rotor efficiency is to enclose it in a duct. The duct prevents narrowing of the flow tube before it reaches the converter, which is unavoidable with a rotor in a free air stream. The achievable power coefficient exceeds the Betz value and is about cP  0.66 2. Instead of using a full duct, effects similar to those of a ducted flow can, to a smaller degree, be achieved with the help of endplates at the blade tips 4.;An obvious idea aimed at capturing more wind is to mount a funnel in front of the rotor. However, theoretical and experimental investigations have shown that this does not achieve an increase in power capture in practice. Apparently, the airflow through the funnel is determined by the smaller opening, and the funnel additionally produces a circulatory flow counteracting the wind stream.;It is more effective to place the rotor in a duct in the shape of a reversed funnel, adiffuser. This results in an additional circulatory flow the speed components of which in the diffuser have the same direction as the wind stream, thus reinforcing it. The power coefficient of the rotor rises to values of 2.0 to 2.5 relative to the rotorswept area 5 but, to obtain fair results, the power coefficient must now be related to the maximum cross sectional area of the diffuser. This reduces the power coefficient to about 0.75, which is still a modest gain compared to the freestream rotor.;An increase in wind concentration can also be achieved by superimposing a stationary vortex on the wind flow so that the velocity field of the vortex has an extra driving effect on the rotor. This effect can be produced by various types of concentrator. One idea is the socalled vortex tower or tornado tower 6. In a tower with shutters arranged on