In the initial phases of modern wind energy utilisation, the larger wind turbines were being built with comparatively low towers. The large experimental turbines of the Eighties had in many cases tower heights which were less than the rotor diameter, for example the turbines of the American MOD series (see Chapt. 2.6). As the utilisation of wind power advanced into weaker inland wind regions the height of the towers in creased. Higher towers with 100 m and more were found to be a decisive factor for the economical utilisation of wind energy under the given conditions. On the other hand, costs will, naturally, rise with increasing tower height. However, the rise in costs differs distinctly depending on the type of tower construction 7.;The structural mass of selfsupporting tubular steel constructions increases greatly with increasing height (Fig. 12.30). They thus become disproportionally expensive. To this is added that the tower base sections reach their limit of transportability at approx. 4.5 m for road transport (passing under bridges). But to reduce the increase of mass with height the base diameter of the towers should be larger than 4.5 m. That means the base section has to be composed by sectional shells. Very recent tower concepts are steel towers which are completely composed by slim ushaped shells forming a polygonal section 8. Furthermore the stiffness of very high towers has to be reduced below the 1 p excitation see Chapt. 7.5.1. By applying those design features steel tube towers are built up to 140 m height without losing their economics.;An argument against very high steel towers are the costs of raw material. These costsbecome a decisive factor, but the costs for structural steel have been subject to consider able fluctuations in recent years. After a drastic rise in the years from 2005 to 2008, the prices dropped again from 2009 onward as a consequence of the worldwide economic recession. In 2009, the specific constructional costs for tubularsteel towers were about 2 Euro per kilogramme (Fig. 12.31). For the future it has to be expected that steel prices will increase continuously.;The lattice type of construction is more suitable for achieving tower heights of more than 100 m. The increase in structural mass with increasing height is distinctly less in lattice towers (Fig. 12.30). A lattice tower with a height of 150 m has virtually the same struc tural mass as a tubularsteel tower of 100 m height. In general, the structural mass of lattice towers is only about 60  of that of comparable tubularsteel towers. However, the cost advantage shrinks to about 20  because of the more complex processing and assembly up to a height of 100 m. Above that, the cost advantage becomes more obvious. But it has to be considered that the costs for maintenance are higher compared to the other tower constructions.