6.8 CONCEPTUAL DESIGN FEATURES AND STRUCTURAL STRESSES 223found in the early, large experimental units could be provided with such a control sys tem and could experience a renaissance for special applications, especially for very large offshore installations. Having this aim in mind, the basic groundwork for individ ual blade pitch control is also being carried out in various research institutes 16.;However, one must not overlook the difficulties of implementing a reliable individual blade pitch control arrangement. The essential problem is the availability of the correct signal as reference variable for the control. It is possible to measure the flexural loading of the rotor blades directly by means of strain gauges and to use these signals. It is also possible to use acceleration values from the tower head movement as input sig nals. But the practical difficulties lie in the fact that, apart from the reliability of the sensors, there are many details to be optimized. Even the location of the measurement already becomes problematic due to the continuously changing asymmetric wind load ing. In addition, the rotor pitch actuator must be capable of providing an adequate pitch ing rate for this task. It is certain that the blade pitch drives needed for this purpose will become heavier and more expensive. In view of these manifold development tasks, individual blade pitch control will probably remain to be an option for future wind tur bines used commercially.;6.8.5 Rotor Speed Flexibility and VariableSpeed Operation;One of the most important design features of an increasing number of wind turbines is the variable speed control of the rotor. This makes it possible to achieve two aims at the same time.;Firstly, if the bandwidth of the available rotor speed is great enough, the rotor speedcan be adapted to the wind speed and it can be operated with its optimum tipspeed ratio, i.e. with its maximum power coefficient. This results in an increased energy supply in comparison with an operating mode with fixed rotor speed (s.a. Chapt. 14.6.3).;The second advantage lies in the fact that the rotor can store or deliver shorttermpower changes by deviations in its speed, i.e. by increasing or decreasing its kinetic energy like a flywheel. Having this capability makes it possible to very effectively smooth out the delivery of the electrical power and the dynamic load changes. In com parison with the aerodynamically windcontrolled operation requiring a relatively large speed range, a comparably low speed elasticity of only a few percent is sufficient to achieve a noticeable reduction in the dynamic loads. The mechanical and electrical options for a flexiblespeed or speedcontrolled operating mode are explained in Chap ters 8.10 and 9.4. The available technical solutions behave differently with respect to the loads.;Wind turbines equipped with synchronous generators directly coupled to the grid must have a minimum of torsional compliance and damping in the mechanical drive train. There are either torsionally elastic components which are built into the lowspeed or highspeed shaft, or the gearbox must have a torsionelastic suspension. Naturally, the effect of such measures depends greatly on the actual design adopted. Apart from torsional