830 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSindicated in a generally valid form. A private owner operating a small wind turbine next to his house and who does the occasional repair work himself, has a different view of operating costs than the commercial operator of a large wind park or an electricity supply company. Up to a certain extent, an accurate operatingcost calculation will always have to be an individual calculation.;Not too long ago, the costs required for the maintenance of a wind turbine were one of the largest uncertainty factors for the longterm economic calculation of power genera tion with wind energy. The obvious reason was the early stage of development of this technology. In the early phase of a new technology, routine and unscheduled mainte nance work is encumbered by numerous technical breakdowns and failures. The costs incurred by this were in fact late development costs. In numerous cases, these costs made any economic calculation look absurd. This was especially true of the operation of the first large wind turbines, which were operated predominantly for research and de velopment purposes.;This situation has changed drastically in the meantime. With regard to the costs ofmaintenance and repair, reliable information is today available from the operation of several ten thousands of commercially operated wind turbines, even if it is taken into consideration that the calculated life of the turbines, twenty years or more, has only just been reached by a few turbines. After all, the oldest commercial wind turbines have already operated for twenty years.;The statistically recorded commercial operation of wind turbines had its beginningapproximately in the year 1978 in Denmark and in 1982 in the US with the wind farms of California. In Denmark, the Association of the Danish Wind Turbine Manufactur ers and the wind turbine test station in Ris evaluate the experience gained in operation and publish it regularly 6. The progress in technical maturity of the wind turbines achieved within this period is illustrated by the fact that in 1979 50  of the wind tur bines still suffered one severe defect per year, while in 1984 this failure rate had al ready been reduced to 5 . In the meantime it is the insurance companies, above all, who carry out detailed statistical surveys and analyses about the susceptibility of wind turbines to failure. Insurance rates to insure against machine breakage are thus a clear indicator of the frequency and level of defects of a certain type. Today, the wind tur bines of the latest generation already achieve a degree of reliability which is equal to that of any comparable technology. This finding also applies against the background that in recent years there has been increasingly damage in gearboxes and bearings which have not reached their expected service life (Chapt. 18.9).;Unfortunately, there are no harmonised regulations as yet regarding the warranty. A warranty period of one year, formerly common practice in mechanical engineering, is no longer customary today. Today, most manufacturers offer a warranty of two years. In some cases, when a comprehensive maintenance contract has been concluded, some manufacturers also go beyond this period.