If the time history of the active force is known, for example the variation of wind speed with time, the resultant response of the structure versus time can be calculated. This requires an aerodynamic model of the rotor, so that the variation of the aerodynamic force can be determined from that of the wind speed. Using the elastic structure model, the response of the structure over time is obtained.;The advantage of this method is that all parameters are timedependent, a form ofpresentation which is advantageous for several purposes. Moreover, functional algo rithms, for example for the influence of the control system, can be taken into considera tion. The influence of periodic forces, for example from the shear wind gradient or tower interference, can also be determined well by means of the time history approach. The serious disadvantage of this method is the more or less random segment of wind turbulence used as a basis. This does not lead to a comprehensive picture. If this were attempted, the calculation effort would become extremely high. Hence, this method is more suitable for a selective check, rather than for comprehensive structural dimen sioning with respect to fatigue life.;In the socalled spectral method, frequencydependent representations (spectra) of forces and responses are processed instead of their progression over time. This method uses a statistical turbulence spectrum of the wind as the load input (Chapt. 13).;It must be possible to represent the structure in the form of linear or linearised equations (linear systems theory). The excitation spectrum causes excessive dynamic peaks of response in the regions of the natural frequencies of the structure. The extreme values of the required parameters (deformations, forces etc.) which are decisive for the dimen sioning of the structure can be represented as follows;The link between the excitation spectrum and the spectra of the response reaction isestablished via socalled transfer functions. The aerodynamic admittance leads from the wind spectrum to the aerodynamic force parameters, mechanical admittance represents the link between the active forces and the deformations or stresses of the structure.;The decisive advantage of the spectral method is the reliable acquisition of the entire,real load spectrum caused by the wind turbulence. This method is thus predestined for calculating structural fatigue. The fact that the required deformation and stress parame ters are only available as frequencydependent spectra, and not as plots against time is,