The last phase of the project development passes into the actual execution of the construction which is no longer a part of the planning work and requires different knowledge and experience from the responsible people. From the point of view of the operator, the execution of the construction involves much more than the mere installa tion of the wind turbines which is carried out under the responsibility of their manufac turer, in any case. The individual works such as road construction, foundations, internal cabling and connection to the grid must be commissioned on the basis of the present planning. This is often done with a request for tender and associated detailed planning and optimisation.;For large wind farm projects, the interdependent planning tasks outlined above require professional knowledge and experience  and they severely test the endurance and patience of the project developers. From the first site inspection until the delivery con tract for the wind turbines is finally signed now generally takes three to four years and often even longer. Shorter planning periods are an exception which is becoming more and more rare.;The licensing process is the most difficult hurdle to the continued development ofwind power utilisation. It is not so much technical, or in a narrower sense, administra tive obstacles which play a role here, but rather the resistance of nature and landscape protection organisations. The problem of wind energy utilisation as seen from this as pect can be characterised as follows;The global ecological advantages of wind power utilisation are obvious and are vigorously substantiated by all interest groups. The disadvantages of wind turbines, however, their visual impact on the landscape and possible noise pollution, make themselves felt right on the doorstep of the local residents. The citizen is thus forced to put up with these incursions into his immediate surroundings for the benefit of global advantages which he cannot directly experience. This leads to the wellknown attitude Wind power, yes  but not on my doorstep, please. It is too simple to dismiss this attitude as narrowminded and it does, indeed, present a problem.;Great efforts will have to be made in the future to make the public aware of the factthat an ecologically oriented power supply does require certain sacrifices if longterm damage to the overall ecology is to be avoided. The negative consequences would oth erwise have immediate and much more severe effects at ones doorstep. At a time of general retreat into ones private sphere this is no easy task as it basically runs counter to the current trend in society. However, this somewhat pessimistic assessment must not be an excuse not to try everything to increase public awareness.