Current wind turbines, therefore, have threephase AC generators, or alternators,similar to those used in conventional power plants. As mentioned before, the electrical system of a wind turbine is by no means restricted to the electric generator. The genera tor merely represents the core of an extensive overall electric and electronic system. The electrical equipment used for current distribution, the connection to the grid, monitoring and control are all parts of this system. Wind turbines are currentgenerating power plants which must meet the requirements concerning automatic operation, monitoring and safety just like other conventional power plants of comparable output. This fact is sometimes overlooked, thus causing the complexity, and costs, of the electrical equip ment to be underestimated.;The selection and design of the electric generator system is primarily subject to theaspects of production costs and of the electrical efficiency. But its maintenance and operational reliability is also an aspect not to be neglected, especially in offshore appli cations. The control characteristics of the electric generator and the remaining control related properties of wind turbines, particularly blade pitch control or stall behaviour, must always be considered collectively. They constitute an almost inseparable func tional total system (s. Chapt. 11).;Not lastly, the quality of the electric current fed into the public utility grids is determined to a considerable degree by the technical concept of the electrical system. Par ticularly in weak grids, grid reactions in the form of power and voltage fluctuations or harmonics, are important criteria in the selection and design of the electrical system 1.;It is not the task of this book to provide a general introduction into electric generator technology. The standard literature of this field is better suited to this purpose 2. Nev ertheless, some of the essential properties of the two most important types of alternators will be summarised in the following sections. Knowledge of these is a prerequisite for understanding the functional behaviour of a wind turbine. Continuing from the general characteristics of the synchronous and induction generator, the most important electrical concepts of wind turbines will then be discussed.;From the point of view of their physicalelectrical principle of operation, threephasemachines can be built as synchronous generators or as asynchronous (or induction) generators. Both machines have the same basic design with respect to the threephase winding of the stator. The difference lies in the way the electric field is generated in the generator rotor.;Synchronous electric machines have a rotor (pole wheel) which is excited with direct current via slip rings (Fig. 10.2). An alternating voltage is either generated in (generator operation) or applied to (motor operation) the stator windings. The currents flowing in the stator winding and having the frequency f generate the socalled armature field. The rotor winding, through which direct current flows, generates the exciter field, which