16.1.2 Residential Heating with Wind Energy;There is a number of reasons why wind energy should be used for residential heating. Possibly the most important argument emerges when one looks at energy consumption patterns, for example for a country like Germany. With approximately 45 , the households and small consumers sector represents the highest percentage of overall primary energy consumption. About 6  of the energy requirement of this group is met by coal, about 16  by gas and about 60  by oil (1994) 8. An overwhelming propor tion of the energy consumed by this group is used for space heating. It accounts for 80  of the energy demand of a private household. This proportion is contrasted by only approximately 5  for lighting and power and approximately 15  for process heat (hot water for domestic use). Using a wind turbine for home heating would, therefore, re place the primary energy sources of petroleum and natural gas particularly effectively.;Another argument, relating more to energy politics, puts stress on the fact that theutilisation of wind energy in the privately organised heat supply market could be handled much less restrictively than power generation involving feeds into the public grid. Heating energy is not produced and distributed by large electricity syndicates. Against this background, market penetration could be achieved much more easily, an argument which can certainly not be dismissed completely.;Not least, there is the argument emphasising the simpler and cheaper equipmentwhen wind turbines are used for heating purposes. For resistance heating, constant fre quency and voltage are of secondary importance. However, it remains to be proven to what extent the resultant lower requirements as to the wind turbines control system will actually be reflected in lower investment costs. It must be kept in mind that for reasons of economy, the power which is not used must be fed into the grid, thus necessitating utilitygrade AC power.;All in all, there are thus several arguments for using wind energy for residential heating. Hence, a somewhat more intensive discussion of this possibility is necessary. In Germany, several technical and economic analyses relating to this subject have been carried out in the years when heating oil was expensive 9.;The heat consumption of the space heating system of a private home is composed ofthe consumption of heat convection and of transmission. These are usually calculated according to the German DIN regulation 47701. The convection heat, i.e. the heat flow required in order to heat the outside air coming in through leaks, such as window gaps, and outside doors, depends on the wind speed and wind direction. According to the Ger man DIN 4701, this parameter is generally only considered with a very rough estimate, if at all (Fig. 16.5). The influence of the wind speed essentially means that the heat transfer coefficient increases with wind speed. Thus, the times of abundant energy availability coincide with those of increased demand, in contrast to heating systems based on the di rect utilisation of solar power.;The extent to which the demand for heating power can be met by wind energy hasbeen examined in a concrete case by a computer simulation 10. For this purpose, the performance characteristics of the small Aeroman turbine with a rated power of 11 kW were assumed for supplying a family home with a floor area of 140 m. For the assumed