17.3 OFFSHORE WIND ENERGY IN THE NORTH SEA AND IN THE BALTIC SEA 705immediately spoke up who saw their interests being affected. The familiar experience that something new can only arise when all existing claims remain untouched obviously also applies at sea. The legal situation with respect to the permission is primarily determined by whether;immediately spoke up who saw their interests being affected. The familiar experience that something new can only arise when all existing claims remain untouched obviously also applies at sea. The legal situation with respect to the permission is primarily determined by whetherthe relevant maritime region is located within the area of the territorial waters, that is to say within the 12mile zone, or beyond this boundary. All states bordering the North Sea and the Baltic Sea are claiming a region beyond the 12mile zone in which they exclusively pursue their economic interests. The boundaries of this exclusive economic zone were last established contractually in 1994 in an agreement by the neighbouring states (s. Fig. 17.33).;Denmark and Great Britain is not as complex as in the German part of the North Sea. Here the ecological area of the Wattenmeer is more or less untouchable so that only the more distant offshore areas are suitable for offshore siting of wind turbines. In the meantime, the discussion has become more objective and the criteria, whether ecologi cal or economic, which must be observed in the context of a permission procedure have become clearer 17.;Naturally, the legal regulations are different in the different countries. Any concreteproject planning must, therefore, deal in detail with the national regulations. The general problems described in the following sections primarily relate to the German area of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. In principle, however, the situation is comparable to that in other countries.;In some countries, for example in the Federal Republic of Germany, the same planning and licensing prerequisites as on land apply, in principle, in the territorial waters. The coastal provinces authorise the sites as part of their area planning and are using as a basis the same licensing criteria and legal principles as on land. This means that the environmental compatibility check is carried out as on land. At the same time, the Euro pean guidelines for florafauna habitats (FFH) and the important bird areas (IBA) must be observed. The regional authorities issuing building permits are formally re sponsible in the same way as for sites on land. For constructional undertakings on the bottom of the sea (laying sea cables), the Federal Mining Statutes and regulations must be observed.;The legal situation in the exclusive economic zone is much less unambiguous and leads to a discussion of the principles of international law, independently of the siting of wind turbines. Strictly speaking, all national and European laws end at the boundaries of the territorial waters. In Germany, for example, the permissible procedures in the exclusive economic zone are specified in the Decree Relating to Maritime Installations (Seeanla genverordnung) of the Federal German Office for Navigation and Hydrography (BSH  Bundesamt fr Seeschifffahrt und Hydrographie) and are based on the regulations of the