Concentrating several or even many wind turbines in one area also offers considerable advantages technically. Operating one single wind turbine involves a compara tively large amount of work. From an economic point of view, it is much more costeffective to provide the required lifting and assembly equipment for a larger num ber of wind turbines in close proximity to each other. A further economic aspect relates to the costs for grid connection. Long distances to a suitable gridconnection point can only be justified for a relatively large number of turbines which can also be combined electrically.;The terms wind farm or wind park denote the concentration of several wind turbinesinto a spatially and organisationally interconnected cluster, the operation of which is, as a rule, commercially organised. There is no mandatory technical connection between the individual turbines. Although the turbines are connected to the grid via internal cabling and a joint substation of the utility company, the turbines are operated com pletely autonomously in parallel with the grid. Therefore it is not an independent techni cal concept for the use of wind turbines but a special organizational form of application. The two terms wind farm and wind park are used interchangeably. In American and international usage the term wind farm has become established.;In 1982, the first large windturbine arrays were set up in the American state of California. They initially consisted of small turbines with maximum power outputs of be tween 20 and 100 kW, in most cases of US manufacture. The Danish manufacturers of wind turbines soon recognised their chances and the further growth of the Californian wind farms rapidly became based on Danish imports. The development came to a halt in 198586 when the tax incentives for the investors largely disappeared (s. Chapt. 2.5).;In Europe it was the Danes who, in addition to their numerous distributed installations, emulated the American model with their first wind parks, although on a much smaller scale. Because of the limited space available, however, further development has been greatly retarded in recent years in Denmark.;In Germany, the introduction of the Einspeisegesetz in 1990 created the economicpreconditions for the construction of larger wind parks. The utilisation of wind energy in Germany has been based on large turbines right from the start (Fig. 16.14). Whereas in the initial years, wind turbines had been erected almost exclusively in the immediate vicinity of the coast, wide inland regions have also been opened up for the utilisation of wind energy in recent years.;In the following years, wind parks were installed in nearly all European countries,most of them in Spain (Fig. 16.15). Also in the US the installation of wind parks started again, but now on the basis of large megawatt wind turbines. In recent years the utilisa tion of wind energy in Asia and Australia, particularly in China, accelerated rapidly (Figs. 16.16 and 16.17). In China the installed wind power is going to overtake the ca pacities of US and Europe.;Today, wind parks with up to several hundred megawatts output form a part of theenergy supply in many countries which can no longer be overlooked. The large amount of wind power feeding into the public grids causes special problems (see Chapt. 16.4). In Germany the latest technical regulations for grid connected wind turbines consider a wind park as a power generating unit like a conventional power plant. At the grid con nection point the wind park has to meet some specific technical requirements, which are not required from the single wind turbine in the park.