19.2 SPECIFIC COSTS AND REFERENCE PARAMETERS 807this type of construction is much more compact in its dimensions than the electrically excited generators developed by Enercon (s.a. Chapt. 9.5).;With these turbines, the sum of the component costs is about 5 higher than with theconventional turbines (Table 19.9). The reason for this is less the cost of the relatively expensive permanent magnets but rather the high weight of the generator which is mainly caused by the loadbearing structure of the generator rotor and stator. On the other hand, there are no costs for a gearbox or a rotor shaft or some parts of the nacelle. The costs for the permanent magnets only amount to about 20 of the generator costs. They have dropped distinctly in recent years but the few suppliers, mainly from China, have an extensive monopoly in the market. In view of the great demand in the last years, the prices for neodymium iron have increased again, although it showed a decreasing tendency before. With regard to the future development the availability and the costs of the material for permanent magnets imposes some uncertainties which may influence the cost comparison with the competing systems.;Seen overall, it will be possible to grant a higher development potential, and thus alsoa corresponding potential for lowering costs, to the gearless turbines than to the conven tional turbines with gearbox. The relatively high costs for the permanentmagnet generators which are only being produced as prototypes or in smaller numbers to the present day, can certainly be lowered further as the numbers are increased. In addition, further progress in turbine design also offers a few possibilities. According to most recent experience, the masses of the loadbearing structures can be reduced further, for example by means of a singlebearing design of the generator or rotor. Naturally, this also applies to the conventional turbines with gearbox (s.a. Chapt. 8.6.5). But it is doubtful whether the production costs are lower, because this kind of bearing is very expensive. However, the hope that the gearless type of construction can offer some advantages with regard to manufacturing costs in future is not unfounded. In any case the lower costs for maintenance and repair may be expected and will contribute to better economics in the long run.;It is another question whether the permanentmagnet technology offers cost advantages in comparison with the electrically excited, directly driven generators. After all, the most successful gearless turbines by Enercon are constructed with electrically ex cited generators. The question cannot be decided in this individual case since the manu facturer has not published any relevant data. In principle, electrical excitation is more complex and more expensive. The high copper prices and the labourintensive winding of the exciter results in relatively high production costs.;In view of the fact that the excitation, either electrical or by permanent magnet,amounts to only a small proportion of the component costs, the differences are relatively small. They may be in the order of 510 of the total component costs. However, the differences in cost become more significant with larger dimensions of the electrically excited generators. For example, in the case of a closed cooling circuit, the cooling in large, electrically excited generators with diameters of over 10 meters (Enercon E126) becomes very complex. This disadvantage can become important in large offshore in stallations since a closed cooling circuit is absolutely necessary in these turbines be cause of the salty environmental air.