822 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSof projects. Disregarding remote and relatively inaccessible sites, these costs will, how ever, not materially alter the general cost pattern.;The term technical infrastructure is understood to mean all constructional and techni cal facilities required for erecting and operating the wind park. This hardware, and the associated costs, are unavoidable in contrast to some other organisationally necessitated costs. The costs vary in dependence on the local situation, for example due to the exist ing terrain, or the prerequisites for grid connection, or also due to the partly consider able differences in the cost level of the local companies involved in the construction.;The costs of the foundations are firstly determined by the wind turbines size and then by the geological composition of the ground (Table 19.17). In addition, the technical concept of the turbine plays a certain role. Stall controlled wind turbines with fixed rotor blades, in particular, generate much greater loads at extreme wind speeds when they are standing still than pitchcontrolled turbines which can set their rotor blades to the feathered position in this case, and, therefore, require more expensive foundations compared to pitchcontrolled turbines (Chapt. 12.6).;With respect to the nature of the ground, the water flow conditions of the groundlayer play a considerable role for the construction costs (s.a. Chapt. 12.8). Socalled floating foundations must be much more voluminous and thus become more expen sive. In some coastal areas, for example in the marshlands of northern Germany, the foundation costs are influenced significantly by the necessity for a pile foundation (Chapt. 12.6). In some regions, piles going down to a depth of 25 m are required, which entails about an increase of 40 to 50  in costs compared to a standard foundation in solid ground.;Table 19.17. Typical foundation costs for a wind turbine with 82 m rotor diameter rated power 2MW, tower height 80 m