Almost all rotor blades are mainly made of glass fibre composites today. In mostcases carbon fibre is used as reinforcing material for very large blades. Producing rotor blades completely of carbon fibre composite material is still too expensive today for commercial wind turbines. For this reason, carbon fibre is used only in small amounts at the highly loaded points on the rotor blades. For example, the spar flanges in many blades are reinforced with carbon fibre in the main stress direction. The use of carbon fibre is almost inevitable for extremely large rotor blades for a rotor diameter of more than 120 m. Rotor blades having these dimensions simply become too heavy in pure glass fibre technology, especially due to the requirement for adequate stiffness. The kind of material which covers the blade nose area is important. It is nearly un avoidable that this area of the blades suffers erosion damages during operation (see Chapt. 18.8). Most manufacturers use a special coat for protecting the blade nose area.;An essential feature of the structural design is the way in which the blade is joined tothe hub. The constructional solutions which can be applied are closely associated with the selection of material, especially the matrix material used (s.a. Chapt. 8.5).;The manufacturing methods for fabricating components of fibre composite material are closely associated with the selection of material and the most common one is the lami nating technique. For this, the mats of fibre material are laid in layers into a female mould of the component and are impregnated with synthetic resin. The laminated layers are then cured at ambient temperature (polyester resin) or at higher temperatures of 70 to 80C in the case of epoxy resin;Depending on the desired strength properties, the fibres can be oriented, in the direction of the main stress, so that the strength of the material is exploited to its best advan tage. Being able to adapt the structure of the material to the load direction like this is a major advantage of laminated composite design. As a rule, the weight ratio of fibre to matrix material is 11. Thickerwalled structures are manufactured as socalled sand wich shells where only the outer cover layers with a thickness of only a few millime tres are made of laminated fibre material, whereas the inner, much thicker layer consists of light weight supporting material bearing virtually no load. The laminating technique permits the production of almost any complicated shape with a high surface quality. The disadvantage, however, is that most of the work must be done by hand. The components are essentially produced in accordance with four different methods, but in any case a mould is necessary for the production of GFRPblades.;The laminating technique requires the availability of a female mould of the outer rotor blade contour (Fig. 8.19). Producing this mould represents a not inconsiderable invest ment for the rotor blade manufacturer, placing high demands on accuracy and stiffness. Depending on the respective laminating technique and resins used, it must also be pos sible to heat the moulder in order to dry the composite material. The costs for the rotor blade mould are an indirect part of the production costs of the rotor blades since they must be amortised over the number of blades produced.