400 CHAPTER 10 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMsome of the variablespeed generator systems with older inverter types. Modern invert ers generate an alternating current which is almost completely free of harmonics.;Synchronising the generator with the grid presents entirely different problems for the two generator designs. Synchronising a synchronous generator with the grid poses con siderable difficulties for a wind turbine. In practice, it can only be done by using an additional inverter or some speed elasticity and damping in the drive train. Nevertheless, induction generators, too, are connected to the grid by means of a soft connection arrangement using thyristors. This is intended to reduce the socalled switchon tran sient with its momentarily high power import from the grid (see Chapt. 10.3.2). It is, however, much easier to connect induction generators to the grid.;A sudden load disconnection, for example due to a failure of the grid or an electrical fault, is always a critical moment for a wind turbine. The loss of the generator torque requires immediate action from the rotor brake systems in order to avoid the rotor from running away. A generator behaviour which sustains the electric generator torque for a certain period of time even after failure of the grid is therefore desirable. It is rela tively easy to implement this electric braking in a synchronous generator. After failure of the grid, the turbine merely needs to be switched to an ohmic braking resistance. In principle, this is also possible with induction generators, but then the magnetising cur rent for the rotor must be maintained, for example by means of rotor feedback. This is much more complicated to achieve and is, therefore, not done in most cases.;The difference in the electrical efficiency of synchronous generators and induction gen erators is small (11.5 ), at least when the nominal slip of the induction generators is small. The discussion of the electrical efficiency therefore focuses on the question of how the efficiency of the variablespeed generatorinverter systems is related to the direct grid coupling of the generators.;Until recently, it was only possible to build inverter systems with relatively poor efficiency. Modern power electronics, however, have changed this situation over the past ten years. Today, the overall electrical efficiency is only a few percent below that of fixed speed generators, even including inverters. If the higher aerodynamic rotor efficiency, made possible by the variablespeed operation, is also included in the calculation, the resultant overall efficiency of the wind rotor and generator system is even higher. In the long term, even the higher investment costs can be compensated for. Given this back ground, the differences in efficiency of the electric generator systems are no longer sig nificant enough to be a deciding factor.