9.5 BLADE PITCH MECHANISM 325elastomer material which was glued in concentric rings, with rings of sheet steel in between. When rotor speed was low, the teetering rotor was arrested in a fixed position by a teeter brake. There were also mechanical stops.;In retrospect it must be said that none of the teetering hubs shown here have completely satisfactory operating characteristics. Among other things, the problem of re stricting the teetering angle has never been solved satisfactorily. When rotor speed is slow, e.g. during the startup and shutdown procedure, the aerodynamic damping and stabilisation of the rotor teetering movement is insufficient, presenting a risk of unstable teetering of the rotor with excessively large teetering amplitudes. To prevent this, the teetering hub must either have a brake which holds the teetering movement at the lower speeds, or it must have hydraulic teetering dampers to limit the teetering motion. In practical operation, both solutions have proved to be problematic. At low rotational speeds, and when there is a strong gusty wind, the teetering rotors strike the amplitude stops and, as a consequence, the hydraulic dampers or the mechanical stops wear pre maturely.;Today nearly all, larger wind turbines have rotors equipped with blade pitch control. The mechanism required for this must basically fulfil two tasks. The primary task is to adjust the blade pitch angle for controlling the power and speed of the rotor. A pitching range of around 20 to 25 degrees is enough for this purpose. But apart from this main function, there is a second task which has considerable influence on the design of the blade pitch mechanism. To brake the rotor aerodynamically, it must be possible to pitch the rotor blades to the feathered position. This increases the pitching range to approximately 90. The implementation of the blade pitch mechanics offers the designer possibilities for design creativity scarcely rivalled by any other system. The models implemented are accordingly varied and the proposals and patents are even more nu merous. A better overview of this variety can be attained if the blade pitch mechanism system is broken down into its main components.;The prerequisite for implementing blade pitching is the ability to turn the rotor blades around their longitudinal axis. Even though the necessary angle of rotation and the rotat ing speeds are relatively small, the rotor blades are almost exclusively supported by roller bearings at the blade root.;For aerodynamic reasons, there is no necessity to adjust the entire rotor blade. Insome earlier turbines, only the outer blade area was adjusted (Chapt. 5.3.1, Fig. 5.18). In this case the bearings and the blade pitch drive must be relocated into the outer blade area. This poses additional design problems with respect to spatial conditions and weight at an awkward place in the outer blade section. Furthermore the loading on the parked rotor are higher, due to the fact that the inner part of the rotorblades cannot be turned into a feathering position.