868 CHAPTER 20 WIND TURBINE ECONOMICSwhich can be put together in a bright green world by the operators themselves in an attempt at selfrealisation. Wind turbines are industrial products of mediumlevel tech nology, the production of which can be handled both by relatively small companies and by large companies.;From the point of view of a commercially oriented investor, profitability of an investment is a demand which cannot be waived. Renewable energy systems must also meet this de mand. Arguments for the utilisation of renewable energy sources other than economic ones  as important as they may be  can, therefore, not be addressed to the operator. The higher order economic aspects must be reflected in the macroeconomic conditions. Drafting these in the interest of public welfare is a political task.;As is generally known, the economic action of the individual is determined by numerous macroeconomic conditions. Among these are the tax treatment of investments and profits, direct subsidies, but also less visible aids such as funding for research and development which benefit a particular branch of the economy but are paid out of public funds. This applies to almost any branch of the economy, but particularly to the energy industry.;In this way, the competition between the various primary energy sources such ascoal, oil, gas, nuclear power and hydroelectric power is to a considerable extent con trolled by macroeconomic considerations. In many countries, the use of domestic coal, for example, is supported by public funds and, as in Germany, the contractual obligation for the utilities to use domestic coal.;The utilisation of nuclear power, too, was, and still is, being considerably subsidised withpublic funds. Without the doublefigure billiondollar subsidies for research and develop ment which have been paid within the past 50 years, there would be no commercial nuclear power stations, or the electricity from nuclear energy would be considerably more expensive if these sums had to be raised out of private pockets.;These two examples, and many more could have been named, show that free competition between primary energy sources in the sense of a free market, does not exist and has never existed. It would also be wrong to demand such a condition. The energy sup ply, particularly of an industrialised country, is of such great significance to its general economy and social life that it cannot be left to the accountants of profitoriented com panies alone to decide on this matter.;In the past, most countries set their policies with respect to energy supply targets onlyfrom strategic and economic points of view and also based the macroeconomic condi tions for the energy industry on these considerations. But the times have changed. The requirements to be set for the supply of energy must also be reevaluated. Attempts at selfsufficiency in energy supply cannot succeed, in any case. At the most, the depend ence on a primary energy supply can be eased by diversification. A new awareness has grown with respect to the interrelationship between energy generation and ecology. Solving this problem may possibly be one of the questions of survival of the human race, if survival in an environment suitable for human life is meant.