As a rule, this lift coefficient will be selected such that at the design tipspeed ratio of the rotor, the blade is operated at the best possible lift to drag ratio. With the standard airfoils, the corresponding angle of attack is several degrees below the maximum lift coefficient, thus providing sufficient margin with respect to the stall. As a first ap proximation, the design lift coefficient can be assumed to be between 0.9 and 1.1. As a result, the rotor power characteristics will have the maximum cPR value at the selected design tipspeed ratio. With certain simplifications, mainly by neglecting airfoil drag and tip vortex losses, a mathematical formula which can be analytically resolved can be derived for the aerody namically optimum chord distribution over the blade length 3;This formula provides useful results for an approximated calculation of the blade contour. The optimum chord length distribution is a hyperbolic function of the blade length or rotor radius, respectively. Figure 5.46 shows the theoretical based shape of the rotor blades at different tip speed ratios, for rotor designs with one, two, three and four blades. It can be seen im mediately that the rotor blades of a three or fourbladed rotor become extremely slender when the design tipspeed ratios are large (  15). It is obvious that the construction of such slender blades is associated with problems of strength or stiffness. It is, therefore, mandatory for highspeed rotors to have only a small number of blades. One of the reasons given for building singleblade rotors is that it is thus possible to achieve high speed rotors with a reasonable blade aspect ratio. The hyperbolic contours of the theoretical optimum shape naturally present disadvan tages with respect to manufacturing. From the point of view of costeffective economi cal manufacturing, straightbladed planforms are preferred. Figure 5.47 shows the extent of the power losses suffered due to deviations from the aerodynamically optimum shape. The trapezoidal planform with straight leading and trailing edges proves to be a very good approximation. The maximum power coefficient is only slightly below the optimum hyperbolically delimited shape. The basic shape indicated in Figure 5.48 constitutes the basis of reference for this comparison and in the following diagrams, showing the influence of the aerodynamic design parameters on the rotor power coefficient. It has been designed for a twobladed