Besides the possible effects on the grid caused by wind turbines, the primary require ment to be met is that the equipment (power lines, transformers, switches etc.) used for transferring the generated energy must not be overloaded thermally. A common under ground cable with 150 mm aluminium conductors can transport the following approxi mate powers;Accordingly, a 150 kW turbine connected at low voltage should not be farther than ap proximately 230 m when the above cable is used. The connecting distance of an 8MW wind farm at mediumvoltage level should accordingly be restricted to about 10 km. If the trans mission capacity is low, or if the conduction losses of the cable are too high, several power lines can be run in parallel but this will increase cable costs.;The maximum permissible power fed in at the grid coupling point is limited by the so called shortcircuit power of the grid. As a rule, the utilities in Germany only allow an infeed power of 2  of the shortcircuit power. In the case of larger wind farms which are connected via a transformer substation, much higher infeed power may be permitted.;The shortcircuit power of a grid indicates the degree to which it can compensate for interfering current impulses. An increase in the shortcircuit power at the point of connection leads to a corresponding drop in the grid impedance so that the interfering currents emitted will generate only slight voltage variations. Hence, a wind turbines perturbations of the grid will decrease with higher shortcircuit power at the connecting point. On the other hand, the shortcircuit power in the grid decreases with increasing distance from the next higher voltage level, i.e. the transformer substation.;With regard to a fundamental assessment of the interaction with the grid discussed, itis worth knowing that the immunity of the grid to interference, i.e. the shortcircuit power and the transmission capacity, can be increased by the power system operator by appropriate grid reinforcements at the respective voltage level. The power supply grids are changing continuously, in any case, because of the replacement and upgrading