13.4 CHARACTERISTIC PARAMETERS OF THE WIND 529able to cope with the economic aspects of this characteristic of the wind and the resultant delivery of energy.;Apart from the wind indices normally used in Germany, there have for some yearsbeen attempts of also developing meteorologically supported statistics about the annual, regional and global fluctuations in the wind speed for larger areas, i.e. not about produc tion data of wind turbines. One basis used for this purpose are global weather data which are continuously acquired by the NCER (National Center of Environmental Re search) and the NCAP (National Center for Atmospheric Prediction) in the US. These are partly data from satellite measurements. Weather models are applied to data already observed and are calibrated using a reanalysis method. Using the mathematical mod els thus developed, wind forecasts are then created. These elaborate methods are applied where the forecast cannot be based on longterm empirical values from the existence of wind turbines and the database for determining the wind speed according to the Euro pean wind atlas is also lacking 6.;In connection with the observations on the steadiness of the wind, it must also bementioned that the distribution of wind direction to be expected statistically is also sub ject to fluctuations 7. For example, east wind occurs more frequently in one year than in another one. However, apart from exceptional cases, the fluctuations have little influ ence on the energy yields so that they are not analysed in detail at this point.;Whereas the longterm fluctuations in wind speed are of significance for the power output and energy yield of a wind turbine, the loads are marked by the shortterm fluc tuations in wind speed, the wind turbulence and the wind gusts. The everpresent turbu lence provides a significant contribution to material fatigue, especially for the rotor blades. The extreme wind speeds, which occur more rarely, must also be taken into consideration for the fatigue strength and, moreover, can increase the loads up to the breaking point (s.a. Chapt. 6.7).;The study of a wind speed time history measured with sufficiently high resolutionenables its most important parameters to be defined (Fig. 13.22). Ignoring shortterm fluctuations, the level of the prevailing wind speed determines the mean wind speed W . It is generally averaged over a period of 10 minutes. Using this steady mean wind speed, the instantaneous wind speed at a point in time t can be specified as follows;The superimposed fluctuating part of the wind speed (t) is caused by the turbulence of the wind. Thus, turbulence is the instantaneous, random deviation from the mean wind speed. The extent and characteristics of the turbulence are dependent on a variety of meteorological and geographic factors which are described in the relevant meteorologi cal literature.