The South American subcontinent has high wind velocities only in the extreme South and at the coast of Chile and in the Caribbean area. In the interior, there are only some regions in the South of Brazil and in the North of Argentina, respectively, which have wind velocities of class 3 and can, therefore, also be considered for wind energy utilisation.;Due to the great diversity of the continent the wind regimes are also very different. There are two areas with completely different meteorological conditions, the northern area with the migrating lows and highs and the Mediterranean area, where the wind is driven by thermal effects between the Atlantic and the Mediterranean sea.;France in the South up to Denmark in the North and along the British and Irish coasts. There are numerous regions in wind power density class 7, with an annual average of more than 9.4 ms at a height of 80 m. In the Mediterranean zone, relatively high wind speeds are found on the islands, for example on Sardinia and the islands of the Eastern Mediterranean.;But there are also relatively large areas in the European interior which approach awind class of only 2 or 3 rating where the wind energy will be used. The availability of large wind turbines in the megawatt power range with a tower height up to 150 m en able an economic utilisation.;Like South America, Africa is not a world region with high wind velocities. There are areas in the extreme South and on the island of Madagascar which exhibit high wind velocities. Furthermore the northwest coast of Morocco is considered as a promising region for wind energy use.;There are virtually no large regions with very high wind speeds in the entire Asiatic area from Iran all the way to China and including the Indian subcontinent. It is only at the SouthWestern coast of China and on the Japanese isles that the wind velocities reach class 7 in some cases.;In Australia, the regions with high wind velocities are concentrated along the Northern, Eastern and SouthEastern coast and in the South of the Western coast. The wind speeds in the interior are scarcely adequate for wind energy utilisation.