Avoiding resonances becomes considerably more difficult when the rotor is of thevariablespeed type. Either the speed range is restricted by the locations of the relevant natural frequencies, or a critical speed section has to be bridged by the speed control system passing through it quickly and not allowing steadystate operation within it. The first of the two options was chosen for the WKA60 (Fig. 7.26).;In this turbine, however, the first natural bending frequency of the concrete tower coincided precisely with the 2 P excitation at rated speed. Even though these multiples of 1 P excitation are basically considered to be less critical in a threebladed rotor, unpleasant res onances did, nevertheless, develop in practical operation. The dynamic amplification factor, i.e. the ratio of the maximum vibrational response to the amplitude of the excitation, shows how the 2 P excitation affects the towers transverse vibration (Fig. 7.27). If resonance oc curs, the cyclic transverse force is magnified by an amplification factor of 4, a fact which must be taken into consideration with respect to fatigue life. A peculiarity associated with concrete towers must be mentioned in this context. It is no rare occurrence that the actual natural frequencies of concrete towers differ considerably from the calculated values. This may be due to a lack of appropriate care and attention during construction.;The same considerations and criteria basically apply to the dynamic behaviour ofverticalaxis rotors as do to horizontalaxis rotors (Fig. 7.28) calculation methods for dynamics analysis are available from published literature 9. The special characteristics of verticalaxis rotors are based on the fact that the freestream velocity and the angle of attack of the rotor blades oscillate during the cycle of rotation, resulting in special exci tation situations for the vibrational behaviour of the rotor blades. This is influenced mainly by the symmetrical and asymmetrical vibration modes in the rotor plane (in two bladed rotors).