However, some new attempts have been made in this field 2. In special vehicles andin certain areas of drive technology, variablespeed socalled powersplitting transmis sions with electric or hydrostatic control motors are used. In principle, such transmissions can also be used for wind turbines. There is at least one large German manufacturer of transmissions who is offering a continuously variable overriding transmission also for wind turbines (s.a. Chapt. 9.10). However, these transmissions are relatively complicated and require a large amount of maintenance.;Given the current state of the art, wind turbines with a transmission between rotorand generator will have to manage with fixed, mechanical gearing for the time being. The range of practicable solutions for a mechanical speed transmission is not very wide. For relatively low power outputs of up to a few hundred kilowatts, belt or chaindrives are possible. They are occasionally used in small turbines even though their frictional losses are relatively high. In addition, Vbelt drives have the advantage of providing a certain amount of elasticity in the transmission. For higher power outputs, however, gear trains are the only practicable solution. In smaller sizes they are built as parallel shaft gears, but up to a certain size (500 to 1,000 kW) two or three stage planetary gear boxes are used.;Gearboxes suitable for application in wind turbines are available from many fields ofmachinery. But the dynamic loads and the requirements with respect to service life are too severe to ensure their successful use in wind turbines. Design and maintenance, therefore, have to be adapted to the specific requirements of wind turbine technology.;The rotor of a horizontalaxis wind turbine is inevitably mounted on a tower whichmust be at least as high as half the rotor diameter. But this does not mean that all com ponents of the mechanical drive train and the electric generator must also be positioned on top of the tower. Efforts to relieve the tower of the weight of these components, and to facilitate assembly and accessibility, time and again lead to considerations of relocat ing the mechanical and electrical components downstairs. There are indeed a number of alternatives worth considering, some of which have actually been implemented (Fig. 9.2).;In this connection, it is worth to recall the evolution of the old windmills. In the olderpost windmill, all components were accommodated in the rotatable nacelle which, in turn, was mounted on a tower (post). In the further development to the Dutch mill, the drive units were moved into a fixed millhouse, achieving better accessibility and a vi brationally more stable structure. This historical development from windmill construc tion finds its correspondence at least in the area of experimental designs in modern wind energy technology.;Transport and erection of the very recent multimegawatt wind turbines with rotordiameters of more than 100 m and towerhead weights of up to 500 t impose new re quirements on the drive train concept. The nacelles including the drive train could not be assembled on the shop floor before lifting them up on erection of the turbine  at least not for the first prototypes. However, assembling the nacelle when erecting the turbine on site is not very economical. On the other hand hoisting a nacelle with a weight of more than 100 tons to the top of a tower, which can be more than 100 m high, requires very large cranes. Such cranes are very expensive to rent and are not available at many sites. Against this background, it remains a challenge for the future to find an optimum compromise for the technical concept of the drive train in view of the possible alterna tive erection procedures. This is of particular importance for offshore installations