254 CHAPTER 7 VIBRATION CHARACTERISTICSare developed. But problems will arise in smaller turbines with free yawing systems (Chapt. 6). Abrupt changes in wind direction, producing fast yawing movements, can lead to destructive gyroscopic moments.;If the rotor axis is tilted, a component of the rotor torque develops around the yaw axis. This moment must be taken into account in the balance of moments.;The friction in the yaw bearing and brakes naturally also enters into the balance of mo ments. This moment is relatively small with the usual roller bearings. However, some turbines which do not have any separate yaw brakes have frictional sliding bearings (so called sliding blocks) or roller bearings with special damping elements. Electric yaw drive motors with integrated brakes are also used (see Chapt. 9.13).;Yaw vibrations of the rotor and nacelle are, above all, excited by aerodynamic forces and moments. The main causes are cyclically fluctuating forces from wind shear or the tower shadow. They represent an ideal source of excitation for the tower head yaw vi bration, mainly in combination with the dynamic mass effects of a twobladed rotor with hingeless hub. The moment of inertia of a twobladed rotor, which changes with respect to the pitch and yaw axes during one revolution, represents an additional so called parametric excitation (Chapt. 6.8.2).;The natural modes of vibration of the yaw system have a characteristic feature whichneeds special attention. The yaw drive, i.e. either the driving pinion acting on a gear ring on the nacelle or tower, or the transmission gears of the drive motor, always has some play. If this play comes into effect, for example if the friction brakes are too weak, it will have considerable consequences with respect to the systems natural frequency. The treatment of playrelated vibrations is described in the relevant specialist literature 3.;Yawing systems with aerodynamically driven fantail wheels, commonly in use in thepast, were particularly subject to this hazard. The small Aeroman turbine had initially been equipped with aerodynamic yawing using a fantail wheel acting on a worm gear (Chapt. 5.6). To ensure that the worm gear was running smoothly, a certain amount of play was necessary which, moreover, increased with increasing operating time. There