9.5.2 Blade Pitch Systems with Hydraulic Drive;The pitch systems of the earlier large wind turbines mostly had hydraulic actuators in the rotor hub, rotating the blades either directly or via mechanical linkages. The hydrau lic power supply of the actuators is housed at a fixed location in the nacelle so that the supply lines had to be routed through the gearbox and the hollow rotor shaft into the hub. To reach the rotating hub from the stationary nacelle, a sealed hydraulic rotary transmission slipring is required. Figure 9.21 shows an earlier hydraulic blade pitch adjustment system of this type.;In the example of an earlier wind turbine shown above, three hydraulic actuators are installed outside the rotor hub. The hydraulic supply and return lines for the actuators are routed through the hollow rotor shaft and through the gearbox into the rear part of the nacelle to the pressure supply system located there, which consists of a motordriven pump and pressure accumulators. The rotating hydraulic slipring is easily accessible, being located directly behind the gearbox. The central passage of the lines through the gearbox is facilitated by a rear parallelshaftgear stage, which leads to a displacement of drive shaft and drivenshaft. The actuators are controlled by means of control valves via a change in mass flow or control pressure. A hydraulic accumulator for emergency pitch adjustment in case of a failure of the hydraulic units in the nacelle is accommodated inside the rotor hub.;To avoid having to use a rotary leadthrough, either the entire hydraulic system theoretically would be located in the revolving hub, or the actuators has to be installed in a fixed position in the nacelle. In the latter case, the pitch adjustment motion must be transmitted into the revolving hub by means of mechanical transmission elements, for example a connecting rod (Fig. 9.22). Blade pitch adjustment using an actuator housed in the nacelle has proved more successful at least at smaller wind turbines. The hydrau lic units are located in the nacelle, providing easy access for servicing. The connecting rod from the nacelle into the rotor hub can be implemented easily if the rotor is mounted directly at the gearbox and the gearbox has axially displaced input and output