In the Netherlands, there is the NVN guideline for the construction of wind turbines. It is largely related to IEC 614001. There are only a few deviations in the safety factors to be applied.;In Denmark, the national body of rules Loads and Safety of Wind Turbine Construc tion (DS 472) applies. This, too, largely matches IEC 614001. There are still differ ences in the definition of wind speed classes (see Chapt. 6.4.2). There are also special, simplified regulations for the construction of stallcontrolled turbines with a rotor di ameter of up to 25 m.;In Germany, wind turbines are legally graded as buildings. The technical type approval and the planning permission are therefore under the jurisdiction of the competent building authorities. These use the certification companies, e.g. the GL, as expert assessors for the technical part of the building. This procedure, which appears to be somewhat whimsical, has led to the Deutsches Institut fr Bautechnik (German Institute for Structural Engineer ing) (DIBt) issuing their own guidelines for the construction of wind turbine installations. Although these relate primarily to the socalled Proof of Stability for Tower and Founda tion, they contain many specifications which relate to the wind turbine as a whole. By now, these relate largely to the IEC Standard but there are still differences, primarily the so called wind zones which are not identical with the wind speed values in the wind turbine classes according to IEC (see Chapt. 6.4.2).;The certification of wind turbines has become an extensive branch of the trade which requires some relevant critical remarks with which not everyone may agree. The independent verification, i.e. testing of the structure with respect to safety, is quite indis putably in the publics interest and is therefore a must. Checking the performance characteristic by manufacturerindependent neutral institutes or expert assessors also makes sense. In Germany, this check is not a subject for the type approval. The purchaser should be aware of this fact and in his own interest request to see the certificates for the performance characteristic.;The newly developed fields of wind energy utilization such as, for example, the offshore siting of wind turbines, make completely new demands on the design and the technical equipment. The development of the design standards and the certification must keep up with these developments which makes it unavoidable that the latest and more extensive sets of rules must always be available.