Almost all manufacturers offer maintenance and service for the wind turbines theysupply. These contracts contain various services. In the simplest case, only routine maintenance, prescribed at certain intervals, is agreed upon.;Operating materials and large spare parts are additionally charged, unless they are in cluded in the warranty. Referred to the exworks price of the turbine, this amounts to a percentage of between 0.8 and 1.0  per year.;Since the maintenance contracts generally do not cover more extensive repairs and the insurance does not account for every type of damage, the operator will not be able to avoid keeping back a certain annual reserve for larger repairs. To a certain extent these costs are exchangeable for the costs of an insurance against machine breakage. This means that on condition that such insurance has been taken out, the reserve can be fixed at a relatively small amount (Chapt. 18.9.2). The length of the warranty period also plays a certain role.;In view of the fact that there is as yet no statistically relevant experience about a service life of twenty or more years, the actual amount of any appropriate repair reserve is still in dispute, as discussed in Chapter 18.9.3. Many commercial operators base their calculations 0.5 to 1.0  of the exfactory price of the wind turbines. They are obviously assuming that the greater proportion of the repair costs to be expected will be met by the turbine insurance company. A percentage of 0.5  may be too low for cer tain turbine types from the production years of 1995 to about 2000.;Most manufacturers offer socalled fullservice contracts of up to 15 years duration which include a guaranty of the technical availability of the turbines over the whole contract period, for example the Partnership Concept by Enercon. The costs are about 0.01 to 0.015 US per kilowatthour generated. The operator, therefore, no longer has to bear any risk of repairs and saves himself some of the insurance costs. Some operators consider the cost for the fullservice contracts as too high compared to the normal main tenance and repair costs. The question of whether the operator is better off that way depends lastly on the estimation of the repair risk.