The global effects of the utilization of wind power cannot be experienced directly byan individual person but are still of considerable significance. With each kilowatthour of electrical energy generated from wind power, the corresponding amount of power generated from fossil fuels and the associated emissions into the atmosphere are avoided. The utilization of wind power is therefore also a factor in the increasingly more important efforts to keep the climate stable.;The only possible threat to the surroundings of a wind turbine is posed by parts of the rotor flying off. The danger of the entire turbine toppling over at extreme wind speeds, burying underneath it the people around it, is a possibility in principle but is no more likely than with any other building. The only real danger, at most, is presented by the rotor blades or parts of them breaking off. The question of safety in the environment of a wind turbine, therefore, essentially revolves around the question of how far damaged rotor blades can be flung off and what risk is involved here.;15.1.1 How Far Can a Rotor Blade Fly?;As experience has shown, the most frequent cause of rotor blade fracture is rotorrunaway. When all rotorbrake systems fail, the rotor speed can increase up to the limit which is aerodynamically possible. This is reached when the flow velocity in the outer blade area approaches the speed of sound. As is generally known, this results in a steep increase in air drag. The lifting forces acting on the airfoil are balanced by the aerodynamic drag, resulting in an equilibrium speed which is the critical aerodynamic speed.;This speed depends on the aerodynamic properties of the chosen airfoil, on the bladegeometry and, not least, on the wind speed. A more detailed discussion would be be yond the scope of this book. Theoretical investigations have shown that with modern rotor blade shapes, the critical aerodynamic speed is approximately three times the de sign tipspeed ratio 1. At a constant wind speed, this means three times the rotor speed.;Generally, however, the critical velocity of the rotor blades with respect to theirbreaking strength is usually below the aerodynamically possible maximum speed. Frac ture will occur earlier at least on large rotors, due to the centrifugal forces increasing with the square of the speed. The exact location of this limit is a question of the strength dimensioning and can be precalculated theoretically. Generally, it can be assumed that the strength limit of large rotors is reached at about two or three times the rated rotor speed value. Apart from the rotor speed at the time the fracture occurs, the blades rota tional position also plays a role. Applying the known principles of simple ballistics immediately shows that a rotor position of 45 from the vertical axis in the direction of rotation will lead to the maximum trajectory length.