The blade pitch system for adjusting the blade pitch angle is actually an actuating ele ment, but, due to its complex mechanics, it is also the first controlled system, the physical properties of which are of considerable significance for the control response. The controlrelated properties differ greatly, depending on the design principle. An electromechanical actuator differs distinctly from the various hydraulic blade pitch mechanisms with regard to its mechanical inertia and its elastic damping properties. Its therefore not possible to make general statements on the control characteristics of the blade pitching mechanism.;In most cases, the pitch control dynamics can also be described by means of a linearised model. The mechanical model of the drive train can be formed independently of that. Any coupling with the pitch control dynamics becomes relevant only when ex traordinary drive train vibrations are triggered.;The aerodynamic torque delivered by the rotor is opposed by the moment of resistance of the electric generator. Between these, there is the mechanical drive train. The inertia of these rotating masses, including the generator rotor, the stiffness and the damping characteristics, and also the play in the gearbox and couplings, all affect the dynamics of the drive train and must thus be considered as a controlled subsection. Chapter 7.2 discusses the essential parameters from the point of view of vibrational behaviour. Treating the problem from a control engineering point of view permits simplifications.;The end point of the chain of controlled systems is the electrical part of the generator, which generates the moment of resistance. Each type of generator has different torque characteristics which must be adapted to the control structure of the wind turbine. It is important for the design of the control systems that the electrical processes leading to the formation of the moment of resistance in the generator occur by orders of magni tude more quickly than the mechanical control processes of the blade pitching. Internal generator control can, therefore, be considered independently. Within the context of the overall control structure, the characteristics of the moment of resistance of the genera tor, similar to the rotor characteristics, appear as a stationary curve or, in complicated generator systems, as a family of curves. The characteristics of the generator are of special significance for the control structure to be selected.