9.6 ROTOR SHAFT AND BEARING ASSEMBLY 341are flushed out of the bearings. This is contrasted by a relatively complex system of pumps, vessels, valves and pipelines. It is also associated with numerous sealing problems at the components and the bearings themselves. For this reason, it is attempted to resort to simple grease lubrication whenever possible.;The roller bearings must be protected against the flow of high electrical currents. A lightning strike could otherwise result in very expensive bearing damages, particularly on the blade bearings and in the towerhead bearing. These measures are particularly important for the generator mounting. If a short circuit occurs, there is a risk that the roller bearings become unusable due to the formation of fusion pits and grooves.;In view of the high loads to which the roller bearings are exposed in a wind turbine, and especially in order to avoid expensive repairs which not infrequently necessitate the disassembly of the entire turbine, the roller bearings are today normally subjected to permanent condition monitoring (s. Chapt. 18.7.3). The large bearing manufacturers have developed special monitoring systems for this purpose and handle this task as a part of service contracts for their customers. The monitoring mainly concerns the meas uring of vibrations, temperatures and oil quality. Such measures are rewarded by the insurance companies with lower premiums so that the effort can also be economically rewarding.;9.6.2 Rotor Shaft with Separate Bearings;The traditional solution of rotor shaft and bearing assembly is a floating shaft on a bedplate with two separate bearings. The rotor forces are transferred into the tower via the bedplate which, as a rule, is designed as a welded steel frame with longitudinal and cross beams. In this concept, the gearbox is arranged in most cases as a slipon trans mission and does not have to absorb any rotor loads other than the torque. The gearbox can be disassembled without great effort since the rotor is held by the shaft. This advan tage is considered as being of particular importance by some manufacturers of large turbines (Fig. 9.32).;If the shaft is supported in two single bearings, swiveljoint roller bearings are used, asa rule, both for the fixed bearing  normally the front bearing  and for the movable bear ing in order to be able to absorb the bending deformations of the shaft. At the moveable bearing end, a simpler cylindertype roller bearing is also sufficient for a bearing design with a shorter distance in a common housing (Fig. 9.33).;In large turbines with this modular configuration of the drive train, the rotor shaft is acomparatively heavy and expensive component. For reasons of strength, forged shafts are mainly used. Cast rotor shafts have also been used recently, which saves costs but not weight. Machining is also a complex operation since the rotor shaft almost always