9.8.2 External Load Specifications for the Gearbox;The dimensioning of a gearbox must be considered under two aspects. Firstly, the ex ternal load situation affecting the gearbox must be estimated correctly. Supplying the external load assumptions and the load criteria is the task of the systems engineer of a wind turbine which is why this problem must be dealt with in greater detail here. The second aspect relates to the internal gearbox design and is primarily a task for the gearbox manufacturer. But the manufacturer can only solve this task if he is given the correct external loads in accordance with the operating conditions.;The most important load parameter is the torque to be transmitted. The rotor torqueis, of course, not a constant value but is subject to more or less large variations, depend ing on the technical design concept of the wind turbine. The load spectrum contains torque variations, expressed as magnitude and frequency occurring over the entire oper ating life of a turbine. Based on this load spectrum, the transmission gearing is dimen sioned by the manufacturer in such a way that the socalled fatigue strength limit (Whlerline) has sufficient clearance above the load spectrum (Fig. 9.47).;This ideal method of proceeding is not always feasible in design practice, as a completeand reliable load spectrum for the gearbox is only rarely available. A simplified and empiri cally proven method for defining the external load situation is, therefore, used. The starting point is the rated rotor torque Trated to be transferred by the gearbox. In rotors operated at a constant speed, the rated torque is obtained very simply by dividing the rated mechanical rotor power by the rotor speed. According to DIN 3990, a socalled equivalent constant torque Teq can be defined which corresponds to the dynamic load spectrum in its effect on the gear box dimensioning 11. In other words if the gearbox is subjected to this equivalent torque from an assumed constant steady load, it is subject to the same stress situation as if it were