19.2 SPECIFIC COSTS AND REFERENCE PARAMETERS 811shows a direct comparison with the example of a relatively small wind turbine which was designed and calculated with both bladepitch control and fixed blades 4. Accord ing to this analysis, introduction of a bladepitch control system only increases the cost of a wind turbine by about 4 .  Table 19.12. Cost breakdown of a wind turbine with 25 m rotor diameter and 200 kW rated power, both with and without bladepitch control 4;Basically, it is doubtful whether it is necessary at all for wind turbines with bladepitch control to be more expensive than fixedblade machines. The reduced loads due to the bladepitch control result in lower masses of the rotor blades and the associated mechanical and structural components. This applies at least when the turbines are operated with variable speed as is customary today. In the implementation it must be assumed that the load assumptions take this fact into account and that the designer fully exploits these opportunities when dimensioning the components. The relation ship between the technical features of the turbine and the resultant load spectra of the components does not appear to have been grasped reliably enough, at least in some areas. These differences are more apparent in the case of large turbines. Large, stallcontrolled machines with fixed rotor blades are much heavier compared with bladepitch controlled turbines. With fixed blades, the extreme wind velocity case of loading, in particular, will lead to higher loads and thus also to much heavier and more expensive foundations, among other things.;19.2.6 Economy of Scale in Series Production;An important factor in lowering the costs, which takes effect when a product is manufac tured repeatedly, is the learning effect. This is achieved by labour time being saved due to work cycles becoming routine, as well as by minor improvements effected in the course of repeated production. The learning curve is a forecast of manufacturing cost reduction with an increasing number of produced units. It presupposes that the product is produced repeatedly without major modifications and that the production equipment and processes remain essentially the same.