It thus achieves only one third of Betzs ideal cp value of 0.593. It must be pointed out that, strictly speaking, this derivation only applies to a translatory motion of the drag surface. Figure 4.4 shows a rotating motion, in order to provide a more obvious relationship with the wind rotor.;If the rotor blade shape permits utilisation of aerodynamic lift, much higher power coefficients can be achieved. Analogously to the conditions existing in the case of an aircraft airfoil, utilisation of aerodynamic lift considerably increases the efficiency (Fig. 4.5).;All modern wind rotor types are designed for utilising this effect and the type best suited for this purpose is the propeller type with a horizontal rotational axis (Fig. 4.6). The wind velocity  is vectorially combined with the peripheral velocity u of the rotor blade. When the rotor blade is rotating, this is the peripheral velocity at a blade crosssection at a certain distance from the axis of rotation. Together with the airfoil chord the resultant freestream velocity  forms the aerodynamic angle of attack. The aerodynamic force created is resolved into a component in the direction of the freestream velocity, the drag D, and a component perpendicular to the freestream velocity, the lift L. The lift force L, in turn, can be resolved into a component Ltorque in the plane of rotation of the rotor, and a second component perpendicular to its plane of rotation. The tangential component Ltorque constitutes the driving torque of the rotor, whereas Lthrust is responsible for the rotor thrust. Modern airfoils developed for aircraft wings and which also found application in wind rotors, have an extremely favourable lifttodrag ratio (E). This ratio can reach values of up to 200. This fact alone shows qualitatively how much more effective the utilisation of aerodynamic lift as a driving force must be. At this stage, however, it is no longer possible to calculate the achievable power coefficients of lifttype rotors quantitatively with the aid of elementary physical relationships alone. More