individual modules on or off. From sea water with a salt concentration of 36 gkg and with a mean annual wind speed of 7 ms, the average daily production amounts to ap proximately 13 m of drinking water.;The economics of drinkingwater production by wind power and ROmethods are, asusual, determined by the investment costs. At present, these are still very high in the case of the test plants described here. The costs of servicing and maintenance cannot be ig nored either, especially with ROplants. One fact already emerges clearly, however, namely that in remote, windy locations, waterproduction costs are competitive when compared to plants driven by diesel generators 14.;Under current conditions, an energy supply system relying exclusively on renewable energy sources does not lead to a really practicable solution, except in a few individual cases. It will remain this way, too, for the foreseeable future, unless the energy storage problem can be solved in an economic way. The path to a wider application of renew able energy sources, therefore, lies via a hybrid supply system. It is based on the idea of running the renewable energy system as far as the energy source allows, and to use an additional conventional system to meet the requirement for security of supply. To this end, both systems must be controlled in such a way that switching from one system to the other is possible without interruption or, as in most cases, the systems are operated parallel. A combination which could be used widely in the future is the energy supply by a diesel power station combined with one or several wind turbines working as fuel savers, called winddiesel systems for short by the professionals.;Diesel power stations are used in many countries, especially in the Third World. Frequently these are generators with a maximum power of several hundred kilowatts up to a few megawatts, supplying surrounding consumers via a local grid. But this technically simple and reliable concept is increasingly affected by high fuel costs. Cheaper heavy oil can be used in large diesel engines, but smaller diesel units up to one megawatt need the far more expensive light diesel oil. Using a wind turbine is especially attractive under these conditions. In locations with good wind conditions, the fuel consumption of such an electricity supply system can be reduced to a fraction and at the same time the environmental pollution caused by the diesel exhaust gases is reduced. Operating a wind turbine in a local grid fed by a diesel generator is the essential isolated application. More precisely, this should be called small or isolated grid operation.;In the recent years, the oil prices have increased dramatically. The economic attraction of winddiesel systems has naturally increased in the same way. In 2010 the elec tricity production price of light oil has doubled since the late Eighties, when the described experimental plants have been built. So a new economic approach for the winddiesel applications has more chances now.;In the first period of modern wind energy use winddiesel electricity supply systemshave been constructed as test systems in various countries. As early as 1979, NASA operated one of the four MOD0A test turbines on Block Island in the USA in combina tion with a diesel power station. In Canada, several winddiesel systems with Darrieus turbines in a power range of up to 250 kW were tested 15. In Europe, an isolated winddiesel system was installed on the Greek island of Kythnos 16.