A reduction in flow velocity on the downwind side of the tower is still perceptible even at a relatively large distance. The rotor blades must pass through this windsheltered area with each revolution. This tower shadow effect represents a serious problem for the wind turbine in several respects it must be discussed more extensively.;The aerodynamic influence of the tower has to be considered even in the case of anupwind rotor. As almost all towers of modem turbines have a circular crosssection, only the flow around a circular cylinder has to be considered. The internal friction of the flowing medium and the surface friction (boundary layer) of the body encountered cause an area of detached flow behind the body, the socalled wake area (Chapt. 5.4). The wake in the flow behind a circular cylinder consists of a more or less extensive area of increased turbulence with a considerably decreased mean flow velocity. An other typical characteristic of the wake behind a body with a circular crosssection are the alternating vortices on both sides, occurring with a defined frequency (Karman vortices). Depending on the Reynolds number of the flow, which is referred to the cylinder diameter, three characteristic regions can be observed (Figs. 6.10 and 6.11).;When the Reynolds number is below approximately 3 to 4x105, i.e., at a slow flow ve locity, the boundary layer remains laminar. Flow separation takes place ahead of the widest point of the cylinder crosssection. The flow wake is relatively wide and distinct Karman vortices occur periodically. Under these conditions, the air drag coefficient of the circular cylinder is relatively high and equals approximately 1.0.;At a certain flow velocity, characterised by the socalled critical Reynolds num ber, the boundarylayer flow at the cylinder surface shifts from a laminar to a tur bulent condition. This effect influences the shape of the wake considerably. The highenergy, turbulent boundary layer causes the flow around the body to persist, so that the flow wake is narrowed. The periodic Karman vortices disappear almost completely. The drag coefficient is drastically reduced to values of between 0.25 and 0.35. As it is a boundarylayer effect, the point of change is influenced by the surface roughness of the object.;Above the critical Reynolds number there follows a transitional region where the flow wake starts to become wider again. In the transcritical region, the drag coeffi cient rises to values of approximately 0.5. The Karman vortices again occur peri odically, but somewhat more weakly.