With his Flair singlebladed concept, Wortmann pursued the goal of creating a flexible rotor which is connected to the rotor shaft without moments being transferred to the drive train, and which, under the influence of wind turbulence, is largely self regulating as far as its aerodynamic response is concerned. This was to reduce the turbu lencerelated dynamic loads to a minimum. Apart from the experimental investigations in the wind tunnel, the Flair design was also tested in the field in a demonstration object. The results were applied to the single bladed turbines of the Monopteros series 35.;It goes without saying that with each newly developed wind turbine, the electrical power output as a function of wind speed must be measured (power curve) on the first prototypes. This is not without problems since neither do the appropriate wind speeds exist at the measuring time  as do in the wind tunnel  nor is it easy to measure the correct reference wind speed (Chapt. 14.2.2). It is even more difficult to analyze the aerodynamic properties of a wind rotor with measuring instruments from other engineering aspects. One example of this is the measurement of the rotors instantaneous power output with certain flow conditions, its response to gusts, or the structure of its wake. Nevertheless, measurements carried out on real turbines are indispensable for certain tasks. Generally, these are effects which depend strongly on maintaining the model rules in fluid mechanics or on the turbulence of the real atmosphere, and thus cannot be simulated in the wind tunnel, or they are phenomena which cannot be dealt with theoretically, as they take place partially under separatedflow conditions. Moreover, only measurements done on actual turbines can reliably determine the influence of the ambient atmosphere, i.e. the influence of the turbulence. A particularly complex research program of measurements on site was carried out in con nection with the former experimental German Growian turbine. A measuring grid was placed in front of the rotor with the help of two 170 mhigh masts for measuring wind speed distribution over the entire rotorswept area. It was intended to be used for gaining informa tion on the gust structure of the wind and the loads on the rotor immediately ensuing from it (Fig. 5.71). Simultaneously, attempts were made to directly determine the aerodynamic forces by measuring aerodynamic pressure distribution on defined rotorblade airfoil sec tions. It was hoped to gain information on the interrelationships between wind structure and rotor loads from this. However, the planned measurements never progressed past the initial stages because of the briefness of operation of the Growian turbine 36. In recent days nu merical flow simulations are increasingly used for this kind of research (s. Chapt. 5.3.1, Fig. 5.10). Onsite measurements are also indispensable for investigating the interaction be tween wind turbines in a wind farm. There have been numerous research projects which investigated the flow conditions in the wake of the rotor and the resultant influences on adjacent turbines. This applies both to power losses due to mutual shading and to struc tural loads resulting from the selfgenerated turbulence of a field of wind turbines 37 (s. Chapt. 5.4). A general problem with measurements carried out on original turbines is the time re quired. Waiting for the right wind can totally upset the best budgeting and scheduling plans. The length of time required and costs of a field trip under real conditions should