There are many different ways in which devices to convert the kinetic energy contained in an air stream into mechanical work can be realised and the most bizarre concepts have been proposed 1. Museums and patent offices are filled to the rafters with more or less promising inventions of this type. In most cases, however, the practical applicability of these wind power plants falls far behind the inventors expectations. An attempt to develop an orderly and systematic classification of wind energy converter types is certainly an interesting task, but it brings little reward as the number of significant designs is drastically limited by their practical usefulness. When speaking of varying designs one should be aware of the fact that primarily varying designs of the wind energy converter, the wind rotor, are meant. But the wind rotor is not the only component of a wind turbine. Other components for the mechanicalelectrical energy conversion such as gearbox, generator, control systems and a variety of auxiliary units and items of equipment are just as necessary for producing usable electric energy from the wind rotors rotational motion. Many inventors of novel wind rotors, however, do not seem to be aware of this fact when they are hoping that their invention of a different rotor design will improve everything. Wind energy converters can be classified firstly in accordance with their aerodynamic function and, secondly, according to their constructional design. The rotors aerodynamic function is characterised by the fact of whether the wind energy converter captures its power exclusively from the aerodynamic drag of the air stream acting on rotor surfaces, or whether it is able to utilise the aerodynamic lift created by the flow against suitably shaped surfaces. Accordingly, there are socalled dragtype rotors and rotors which make use of the aerodynamic lift. Occasionally, the aerodynamic tip speed ratio is used to characterise wind rotors and one speaks of lowspeed and high speed rotors in this case (Chapt. 5.2). These characteristics, however, are of little significance to modern wind turbines. Apart from the American wind turbine, almost all other wind turbines designs are of the highspeed type. Classification according to constructional design aspects is more practicable for obvious reasons and thus more common. The characteristic which most obviously meets the eye is the position of the axis of rotation of the wind rotor. Thus, it is important to make a distinction between rotors which have a vertical axis of rotation, and those with a horizontal axis of rotation.