Vibration problems in wind turbines are an old phenomenon. Even in the Middle Ages, the post windmill of that time was also called a rocking mill, as the mounting of the entire millhouse on a trestle led to a rocking motion. This drawback then became the stimulus to continued development, from which evolved the more stable Dutch wind mill which ran more smoothly.;Modern wind turbines are of slender and elastic construction, above all the rotorblades and the tower. They are, therefore, structures which are extremely prone to vibra tion. In addition, there is no lack of excitations as the discussion of cyclically alternating rotor forces has shown. These forces can excite certain subsystems or even the entire turbine to vibrate dangerously. Wind turbines must, therefore, undergo a painstaking analysis of their natural vibrational modes and possible resonance problems, even at the design stage.;This vibration analysis has the aim of verifying the dynamic stability and the absenceof resonances within the permissible operating range. Unstable speed ranges, for example with regard to a bending vibration of the tower, or resonances of bending or torsional vibrations of other important structural components, must be avoided, at least in steadystate operating phases. For this reason, the natural frequencies of rotor blades, tower and mechanical drive train components must not be too close to each other, and their clearance from the possible excitation frequencies must not be too small.;This objective of verifying the dynamic stability must not be confused with the taskof calculating the increase in dynamic loads resulting from the elastic response charac teristics of the structure. It is true that the mathematical approaches and calculation methods are similar, even identical in part, but the formulation of the task is different and hence also the procedure. Vibration problems in wind turbines are essentially con centrated in four areas  The slender rotor blades are subject to aeroelastic influences. To avoid hazardous;of calculating the increase in dynamic loads resulting from the elastic response charac teristics of the structure. It is true that the mathematical approaches and calculation methods are similar, even identical in part, but the formulation of the task is different and hence also the procedure. Vibration problems in wind turbines are essentially con centrated in four areas  The slender rotor blades are subject to aeroelastic influences. To avoid hazardousvibrations, certain criteria of stability must be met.