6.7 MATHEMATICAL MODELS OF STRUCTURAL DYNAMICS 213admittedly, a disadvantage in view of some of the technical problems at hand. For exam ple, it is difficult to process the functional characteristics of a wind turbine methodically, with respect to the influence of the control system on the loads (functional model).;In contrast to the statistical methods described above, it is also possible to follow a deter ministic approach for calculating the dynamic structure responses. As in the example of the time history method, one single event, for example a discrete gust, can be used as load input, rather than the continuous progression of wind speed (Chapt. 6.2.4). The structural response derived from this provides information on the dynamic load magnifications to be expected. From the results, allinclusive dynamic magnification factors for the quasi statically calculated stress can be derived.;The continuous nature of wind turbulence and of the response of the structure is, ofcourse, lost in the process. It is also not possible to cover all of the load inputs with respect to the overall load spectrum by this method. Up to a certain point, one can get by with assuming a certain frequency of the various discrete events (gusts), but the validity of the results with respect to the structures fatigue nevertheless remains questionable.;6.7.3 Analytical Approaches and Numerical Computer Codes;In the procedure for structural dimensioning, the mathematical models outlined are com bined with one another (Fig. 6.26) 9. This provides the structural loads in the form of so called stress resultants at predefined points of intersection of the structural components as time or as frequency spectra (Chapt. 6.6.2). The combined stresses of all given load cases represent the load spectra for the individual components of the wind turbine.;The calculated material stresses are compared, as usual, with the permissible stress values. To be able to determine the permissible values, material properties and the design standards to be used, for example for the welded seams, are needed. With the considera tion of safety factors to guard against fracture, or for some other defined threshold value, the structure can be dimensioned, or, if dimensioning has been determined, design verifi cation can be carried out (Chapt. 6.8).;In principle analytical approaches are possible to calculate the structural dynamicstresses at least for geometrically simple structures. For example for the rotor blades, because they can be represented by a simple beam model. The first step is the modal analysis to determine the natural frequencies and mode shapes (s. Chapt. 7). The modal analysis can be based on the well known finite element calculations. The next step is establishing of the equations of motion for each element and to combine them with the boundary conditions matched at the interfaces. The equations can be solved in prede termined time steps. The result is the distribution of the loading and stress parameters over the blade length. Under simplified conditions the analysis can be carried out in an analytical form 14.;With the availability of increasing computer power numerical simulation codes forstructural dynamics are widely in use. In most cases they will be based on the time do main method. In this way also nonlinear effects, for example at large deformations,