448 CHAPTER 11 CONTROL SYSTEMS AND OPERATIONAL SEQUENCEgenerator operating on a fixed frequency grid. The prerequisite for this is, however, the presence of torsional compliance and damping in the mechanical drive train (s. Chapt. 9.9). Recent research projects suggest improving the critical vibrational behaviour by means of a special damper winding in the synchronous generator 5. Regardless of these possibilities, coupling a synchronous generator for wind turbines directly to the grid is no longer state of the art (s. Chapt. 10.3.1). Today synchronous generators are connected to the grid by means of a frequency inverter.;11.4.3 VariableSpeed Operation with Frequency Converter;Inserting a frequency converter between the generator and the grid enables the rotor to be operated with variable speed. Apart from the aerodynamic advantages, it reduces the dynamic loads on the mechanical drive train and acts to smooth out the electrical out put power (s. Chapt. 6.6.4 and 14.4.4). From the point of view of control, the wind turbine thus has two actuating control variables;On the aerodynamic side, coarse power control is carried out by controlling the pitch angle, whereas small variations are taken care of by the electrical control, but only within the limits of the permissible speed range. This relieves the mechanical pitching mechanism. These actuating variables make the instantaneous electrical power output independent of the aerodynamically captured rotor power.;In principle, the control structure according to Figure 11.13 can be applied to allvariable speed generator systems in the form shown. There are, of course, some varia tions in detail, depending on whether a synchronous generator with an ACDCAC link to the grid or a doublefed induction generator is involved.;In full load operation the pitch control is active, so that rotational speed and powercan be adjusted to the set point values. The speed controller can be provided with a range of insensitivity to reduce the number of pitching operations. At partial load, the power output and rotor speed are controlled exclusively by varying the generator torque. There are no further control operations via the blade pitch angle available. When the wind speed drops, rotor speed is reduced in order to maintain the optimal tip speed ratio of the rotor. Variablespeed rotor operation in the partialload range pre sents the problem of having to control the rotor speed in dependence on the wind speed in such a way that the optimal rotor power coefficient is achieved. Since for this pur pose, too, using a measured wind speed as input variable presents great problems, the rota tional speed is controlled on the basis of a predetermined torquespeed characteristic based on the family of torque curves of the rotor (Fig. 11.14).