The various types of tower design invite a comparison. Even if the most important crite rion, the costs of construction, cannot always be assessed in a generally applicable form, the most significant differences will still become apparent in a comparison. The com parison was carried out for the experimental WKA60 turbine (Table 12.29). The char acteristics of this turbine with respect to the tower head mass no longer correspond to current conditions but do not materially affect the differences between tower concepts.;The tubularsteel towers are dimensioned as soft towers with a first natural bendingfrequency of about 1.5 P just like the prefabricated prestressedconcrete tower. Site mixed unstressed concrete towers are designed with a higher stiffness of approx. 2.5 P.;When the calculated masses are compared, it is found that, although a freestandingcylindrical tube with a constant wall thickness may be simple to manufacture, it is in no way optimal. With the given height and stiffness requirements, the overall mass can be reduced decisively with other configurations. Broadening the base of a freestanding steel tower conically is obviously helpful in achieving the required stiffness with a re duced overall mass. Freestanding tubularsteel towers with this geometry can, there fore, be found in most wind turbines.;The disadvantages of this concept are the cost of the guying cables and the additional foundations. It is, therefore, questionable whether guyed tubularsteel towers are in fact an economical solution (Chapt. 12.1). Moreover, their stiffness is not very high with respect to their first natural torsion frequency, since the guys do not have a torsion stiffening effect.;The constructional mass of the tower variants can be calculated with good accuracywhereas the costs of construction can only be estimated roughly (see Chapt. 18.8). In the case of concrete towers, a considerable cost range of about 400600 US per tonne is obtained for the above reasons. The cost relations specified in Table 12.29 show the differences between the calculated variants.;Although the overall mass of concrete towers is four to five times higher than that ofsteel towers, the differences in construction cost are obviously not serious. In practice, the lower specific material cost of the concrete compensates for the greater overall mass. On the whole, concrete designs are more costeffective in this comparison. This especially applies when prefabricated concrete tower segments are used. However, concrete constructions are frequently not feasible. When there is no suitable local manu facturer, high costs of transport incurred for the heavy concrete components will cancel out the cost advantage.;The production costs of the calculated lattice tower variant are also comparativelyfavourable. The costs of the lattice design are up to 20  less than the costs of a tubular steel tower. However, the higher assembly and maintenance costs must not be over looked in this comparison.;It should be noted that the results of the cost comparison may change with increasingsteel rawmaterial costs. The prices for steel plates have shown ups and downs particu larly in the last ten years.