This concept provides for a wide speed range as the DC link circuit results in complete decoupling of the generator speed, and thus of the rotor speed, from the grid fre quency. This wide speed range permits an effective windoriented rotor operation so that a noticeable increase in its aerodynamicsrelated energy yield can be achieved. It almost goes without saying that this concept completely eliminates the disagreeable dynamic characteristics of synchronous generators coupled directly to the grid.;The generator torque can be controlled by controlling the DC link circuit. However,this can lead to undesirable lowfrequency beat oscillations in the DC link, making it more difficult to control the system. The shaft generators on ships, therefore, frequently have synchronous generators without damper windings, enabling the system to be con trolled more rapidly.;Without much additional expenditure, the rotational speed of the wind turbine can be accelerated with the generator used as a motor and decelerated with the generator used as an electrical brake. In contrast to induction generators, electric braking in case of a grid failure can be implemented very easily by means of an ohmic resistor. In addition, there are no problems with grid synchronisation or with inrush current on startup.;The power of the earlier inverters necessary for control and commutation was high. Moreover, older and simpler inverters produced unwanted perturbations on the grid due to their harmonic frequencies. If the reactivepower requirement was to be completely compensated for and the harmonic frequencies are to be filtered out, the technical com plexity increased markedly. Another important argument against the synchronous gener ator with a DC link was, apart from high costs, was poor overall electrical efficiency. As the total electric power output flows via the inverters, efficiency is basically lower than in variablespeed generator designs which use the inverter only in the rotor circuit of an induction generator.;For these reasons, the synchronous generatorDC link system was not the system offirst choice for variable speed generator systems. Technical solutions based on an induc tion generator are more cost effective and have a somewhat better efficiency.;In the last years the situation has been changing. The technology of the inverter systems has improved so much, that the conversion of the total power via an inverter is not longer disadvantageous. The troublesome harmonics of the older inverters are virtually completely eliminated using pulsewidthmodulated inverters. Therefore the favourable