In Germany, a wind power plant is graded as a building consisting of tower and foun dation under building laws. The nacelle with its rotor is considered as attached machine part. The applicable guideline for the tower design and calculation of the foundations is, therefore, the Richtlinie fr Windenergieanlagen  Einwirkungen und Standsicherheits nachweise fr Turm und Grndung (Guideline for wind power plants  Influences and stability certificates for tower and foundation) issued by the Deutsches Institut fr Bau technik (DIBt) (German Institute for Structural Engineering). This guideline was pro duced in 1993 and has now appeared in its latest version of March 2004 (s.a. Chapt. 6.4.1) 2. With regard to the load assumptions (called influences), the DIBt Guideline relates to IEC 614001. The DIBt prescribes two methods for verifying stability, a so called Calculation of overall dynamics  and, as an alternative under certain conditions, the Simplified calculation.;The loads on the overall system consisting of tower with foundation and machine part are to be determined in accordance with the theory of elasticity. In this theory, suit able models for wind, aerodynamics, structural dynamics and function (control) must be taken into consideration as described, e.g. in Chapt. 6.7.2. As a result of the calculation of the overall dynamics, the variations with time of the stress resultants are to be shown in the relevant crosssections. The proofs for the limit state of the bearing strength and for the socalled performance capability must be provided using these results.;A simplified calculation is permissible if sufficient space between the natural frequen cies of the tower and the exciter frequencies is guaranteed in continuous operation. This is considered as given if the maximum rotational frequency of the rotor (1P) is at least 10  below the first bending frequency of the tower and the frequency of passage of the rotor blades (3P or 2P) is spaced by at least 10  from the integral natural fre quencies of the tower. The proof of stability is to be provided with the stress resultants from a calculation of overall dynamics at the machineparttower interface as load assumptions for the tower. To simplify, the load values need only be stipulated with their maximum or minimum values, respectively. In this type of calculation, the proof of strength or stability is only provided without timedependent load variations for the tower. A complete fatigue calculation according to the theory of elasticity is thus not required for the tower itself. Depending on the wind regime of the site, the standard proof of safety for tower and foundation is required in four wind zones having dif ferent wind specifications. As already mentioned in Chapter 6, these wind zones do not correspond to the wind turbine classes according to IEC 614001, so that a corre spondence between wind zone and wind turbine class must always be established in order to obtain a building permit in Germany (s.a. Chapt. 6.4.2).