Regardless of these doubts, today no profitability analysis of investments is completewithout cashflow calculation. Like all complex methods, it must be generated respon sibly and used with the necessary care. It also provides valuable service by revealing the influence of certain factors in the sense of a best case and worst case consideration by means of sensitivity analyses. This throws light on the economic stability of the investment with changes in technical and economic parameters.;MW rated power each in Table 20.3 shows the results of a cashflow projection. Table 20.7 provides the necessary input data for the calculation. Table 20.8 shows the devel opment of income and expenses over an operational period of twenty years. The relative order of magnitude of the cash flows becomes quite clear in the graphical representation of Figure 20.9. The predominating significance of the service of capital over the as sumed credit period of 15 years is immediately obvious. Within this period, the result for the investor is quite modest, and it is only after the credit has been repaid that the project really becomes attractive from an economic point of view. With the assumed electricity revenue of 9 CentkWh at the beginning, the repayment period for the equity used will be reached in ten years.;The IRR provides information on the profitability of the equity used. The value depends to a certain extent on the assumed times of supply and withdrawal of payments so that the exact method of how it was determined should always be specified. In the ex ample calculated, the internal rate of return is 10.1  over the term of 20 years. This value does not quite meet the expectations of socalled institutional investors who generally expect a return of about 15  on their capital investment and a shorter term. For many private investors, however, who initially can still link their investment to tax advantages, the fact that after the loans have been repaid, the available cash flow be comes very high, acts as an incentive for this type of investment.;(DSCR) is a measure of the economic stability of the project. It indicates the amount by which the available cash flow exceeds the payments for interest and repayments of loans. The banks often demand a DSCR of at least 1.3.;In real cases, professional cashflow projections for large investments projects arecarried out in much more detail, as in the example of Table 20.7. In particular, it con tains variable interest payments and repayment rates, different durations of various bank loans and more detailed tax payments.;Overall, cashflow projections are an indispensable tool in the development of complex financing models. Large investment projects can no longer be realised without them today. The risk inherent in longterm investments can generally only be managed by means of a combination of equity capital and outside capital and by very careful distribution of the risks. In particular the commonly applied project or nonrecurring financing for large projects are based on cashflow projections (s. Chapt. 20.1). The banks, which grant the loans, pay very close attention on these calculations and the underlying assumptions.;A specific risk which has to be pointed out is the variability of income due to the unsteadiness of the mean annual wind speed from one year to the next (see Chapt. 13.3.3). The cashflow projection as the basis for the project financing is based on the longterm