Negotiating a favourable package including purchase price, warranty and servicecontract is left to the skill of the customer. He is well advised to display a certain tenacity and, above all, to be well informed about the offers of other competitors.;The operator of a wind turbine will normally try to cover the financial risks associated with operating the turbine as far as possible with insurances. Insurance coverage plays an important role and requires some expert knowledge, particularly with a technology which yet has to prove its longterm reliability. At present, the operating risks of wind turbines are covered by the following insurances;This almost indispensable insurance covers the risks against damage claims by third parties, both with regard to persons and property, which can be caused by the operation of the wind turbine. It entails only low costs of some hundred USyear for a largesized wind turbine.;Coverage against major repairs has largely become common practice. However, it can not be expected that insurance will endlessly cover all repairs in case of an unusual accumulation of claims for damages. Insurance conditions list a number of exemption clauses, particularly with regard to socalled domino claims (Chapt. 18.9). The costs of insurance against machine breakage are approx. 0.5  of the exworks price of the wind turbine. In combination with a fullservicecontract including comprehensive guaranties from the manufacture the costs for insurance against machine breaking natu rally are lower. In this case the insurance only has to cover some gaps in the warran ties of the full service contracts.;A socalled lossofprofit insurance is taken out for commercially operated energy generation plants. In cases of doubt, private owners of wind turbines can do without it. This insurance covers the loss of revenue in times of a standstill which was caused by a technical defect or an interruption of operation not attributable to the operator. The costs are about 0.5  per year of the annual revenue from the sale of power, which corre sponds to approximately 0.05  of the exworks price of the wind turbine.;Insuring the operation of wind turbines competently requires special knowledge ofthe risks and characteristics of power generation in general, and wind energy technology in particular. For this reason, some insurance brokers have specialised in the insurance of wind power plants and turbines. They offer independent consultation on conclusion of the contract and are also helpful in the regulation of damage claims.