Another disadvantage of aerodynamically effected yawing is that azimuth adjustment of the nacelle is not possible without sufficient wind. This, however, is mandatory for servicing large turbines and it is also necessary for untwisting the flexible cables used for transferring electrical power from the nacelle to the ground. For these reasons, not least, active motordriven yawing is the preferred solution for small units, too. A more logically consistent idea for doing without motorized yawing, is the attempt to exploit the basic capability of a downwind rotor to yaw on its own. If successful, this could save manufacturing costs, which is why it requires a more detailed discussion. If the rotor is positioned downwind, the point of attack of the total aerodynamic force of the rotor is located behind the axis of rotation of the tower head, the yaw axis, so that with the cross wind force, the aerodynamic forces produce a restoring moment on the rotor within a very wide yaw angle range. The question is whether this aerodynamic restoring moment is really strong enough to guarantee the free yawing of the nacelle with the wind direction and then to keep this position stable. To turn the running rotor around the yaw axis, a number of different moments of re sistance must be overcome (s. Chapt. 10). Among these are inertial and gyroscopic moments as well as the frictional moments in the tower head bearings. Moreover, aero dynamic forces and moments become effective due to the uneven flow impacting the rotor swept area, e.g. as a result of the wind speed increasing with height. These mo ments can affect the balance of moments both in a supporting sense and in an impeding sense with respect to yawing. Furthermore, there are the unavoidable, periodically alter nating rotor moments around the yaw axis, particularly in twobladed rotors. In this complex balance of forces and moments there are some essential design parameters of wind turbines which permit at least a general indication of free yawing capability; An important design parameter with a distinct influence on yawing is the cone angle ofthe rotor blades. Similar to aircraft, where a dihedral position of the wings improves the aircrafts stability around the roll and yaw axis, respectively, the cone angle improves stability around the axis of yaw in the wind rotor.; The tilt angle of the rotor axis with respect to the horizontal is also important. Manywind turbines have a tilted rotor axis in order to provide sufficient clearance between the rotor blades and the tower. This, however, creates a component of the rotor torque around the vertical axis which attempts to turn the tower head in a particular direction.; In the case of a two blade rotor a bladepitch angle coupling arrangement frequentlyincorporated in teetering rotors has a positive influence on yawing (Chapt. 6.6). It helps the asymmetrically blown rotor to rapidly find a yaw position with a new equilibrium.;The preconditions for the free yawing capability of a wind turbine are, therefore rotor positioned downwind, if possible without tilted rotor axis, but with a cone angle to the blades. The rotor should be a teetering twobladed rotor with cyclic blade pitch actua tion or a threebladed rotor. One decisive drawback to free yawing can be noted, however, in every case. Rapid changes of wind direction can lead to very high yawing rates of the rotor. As a conse quence, very high gyroscopic moments occur and the resultant moment around the rotor pitch axis causes high bending moments in the rotor blades. This can result in breaking loads on the rotor blades. To avoid damage, carefully matched nacelle yaw damping devices are therefore absolutely essential for turbines working with free yawing.