Costs are also incurred for other civil works, particularly for access roads, but also ground stabilisation for heavy building equipment (cranes) is a significant cost factor in the case of wind farms. Under normal conditions about 1 to 2  of the investment costs have to be considered. In complex terrain the costs can be considerably higher up to 5  of the investment costs.;This cost factor almost never shows up with smaller or single wind turbines. Nevertheless, certain expenses are necessary here as well. However, expenses incurring here are frequently included in the foundation or installation costs and are not listed sepa rately. They cannot, therefore, be quantified easily.;The internal cabling of a wind park, i.e. the connecting cables from one turbine to oth ers, usually consists of buried 20 kV cables (s.a. Chapt. 18.3.3). In most cases, the more inexpensive aluminium cables are laid but in individual cases also cables with copper conductors are used in order to minimize losses. The costs with cablelaying are about 50 to 60 US per metre. In a first approach, the required cable lengths can be estimated from the mean distance between the turbines and adding a surcharge of 20 to 25  of the total length. For example, turbines with 82 m rotor diameter and 2 MW power spaced apart by five rotor diameters on average will result in cable costs of approxi mately 36,000 US per unit. This corresponds to a specific cost value of 18,000 US per MW.;The costs for connecting a wind turbine to the grid are essentially determined by two factors The distance to the connecting point and the local voltage level of the grid (Chapt. 18.5). The costs arising are allocated in proportion to the property boundaries of the turbine operator and the electricity utility. Up to the point of transfer which, also constitutes the boundary, the owner of the wind turbine must pay for all electrical instal lations himself. In many cases, the operator of the wind park also must bear the costs for the transfer line up to the grid connecting point.;The specific costs for a medium voltage (approximately 20 to 30 kV) are in the orderof 50 US per metre. A high voltage 110 kV to 150 kV buried transfer line amounts to about 150 to 200 US. This is higher than for the internal connecting cables since the total power of the wind park has to be transmitted.;It goes without saying that it is impossible to indicate generally valid guide values forthe costs for the grid connection which can be applied directly to an individual case. Local conditions have a too much strong influence on that. Instead, typical grid connection costs will be illustrated by means of two examples shown in Table 19.18 and Figure 19.19. Extreme situations cannot be taken into account here. To permit easier generalization the costs which only are determined by the power of the wind turbine to be connected, are listed separately.