Before you argue, clarify your terms (Confucius, 551 to 479 B.C.). It would certainly be better to follow the advice of this Chinese philosopher than to justify later confusion with pleasantsounding phrases like Whats in a name?. Clear and unambiguous definitions of terms are the indispensable prerequisite for a systematic modus operandi and wind energy technology is no exception in this respect.;The designation of the subject matter of this book will be considered first. The title ofthis book is Wind Turbines. Specialist literature offers a wide variety of similar, but not quite identical terms of which windmill, windwheel, wind generator, wind energy converter, wind energy plant, wind power plant are the most common ones. It is obvious that a term like windmill is unsuitable for a machine generating electricity. The term windmill, by the way, in many cases was not correct even in its time, as windmills were by no means used exclusively for milling grain. As to the selection of the remaining terms, this is a matter of taste. They capture the meaning of the object to a varying degree. The decision for wind turbine, in contrast to wind power plant, seemed more appropriate to the author. Considering the relatively modest power output compared to conventional power plants, wind power plant seems somewhat pretentious. It should be noted that wind turbine is used for the whole system and not for the turbine in its narrower sense called the rotor. The main components of a horizontalaxis wind turbine have already been described;(Fig. 3.5). The technical terms used there also require some description and explanation. The actual wind energy converter, the windwheel in an old windmill, is called the;(Fig. 3.5). The technical terms used there also require some description and explanation. The actual wind energy converter, the windwheel in an old windmill, is called therotor in a modern wind turbine. Different rotors have differing numbers of rotor blades. The term sails, still frequently used, should be avoided. Rotor blades should definitely not go sailing off into the sunset! The rotor blades are connected to the rotor shaft by means of a hub. In wind turbines with blade pitch control, the hub contains the blade bearings and the blade pitch mechanism. Many smaller wind turbines are not fitted with a blade pitch control. The rotor blades then have a fixed connection to the hub. The drive train of the wind turbine converts the rotors mechanical rotational motion into electrical energy. In its narrower sense, the term drive train is only used for the mechanical components, excluding the electrical system. The rotor hub, with the blade pitch mechanism, the rotor shaft, also called lowspeed shaft, the gearbox and the generator drive shaft, which, in contrast to the rotor shaft is called the highspeed shaft, are all part of the drive train. The drive train components are housed in the nacelle. The nacelle and rotor is turned into the wind direction by the yaw system or azimuth drive. The nacelle is mounted on top of a tower or mast. The term mast is more suitable for very small wind turbines. Apart from these terms, a number of other terms and designations are used in the various chapters of this book. These, however, have nothing to do with wind power technology per se, but have their roots in other fields such as aerodynamics, electrical engineering or power plant technology. It is recommended to take notice of this nomenclature and not to change it at will only because one is not familiar with the specific field. The author certainly has made an effort to do so. In an age where communication