Implementing turnkey projects for the utilisation of wind energy means much more than purchasing a wind turbine. Generating electrical energy from wind energy represents an intervention into the existing power supply infrastructure and even more so into the immediately surrounding environment. It is thus inevitable that it will encounter resis tance from those who do not consider this intervention to be necessary or do not want it for some other reasons. The planning of wind energy projects falls right into this area of tension and is thus less of a technical problem than one of striving, as a rule over long periods, to achieve a balance between the various interests until an equitable consensus is found.;The formal procedure for obtaining the building permit for a wind turbine or a windpark follows a broadly similar process to that of any other power generation project. The procedure itself has thus been officially regulated for some time and is a routine matter. The range of the required procedural steps and of the expert assessments de pends on the magnitude of the project. A simple building permit issued by the local authorities is not sufficient for larger wind farm projects. In most countries, there are higherlevel regional planning and licensing regulations in force such as the Federal Antipollution Law (BImSchG) in Germany.;Erecting a wind turbine of small to medium size with a tower height of 40 to 50 meters does not present a technical problem as long as the site is accessible to common transport and hoisting equipment. The erection of large turbines, however, is a separate problem. The most varied solutions have been developed and tried out in recent years.;The operation of a wind turbine is ruled by the unavoidable necessity of having tomanage without permanent operating personnel. For an energy generation system with a maximum power output of several megawatts, automatic operation is absolutely impera tive for economic reasons. Control and supervisory systems are, therefore, accorded special significance in wind turbines. From a technical point of view, therefore, the operation of a wind turbine consists primarily of the organisation of the servicing and maintenance work. Major repairs and maintenance procedures are normally carried out by the manufacturer under the provisions of a maintenance contract, but the routine monitoring of the installation remains the responsibility of the operator. This task is