102 CHAPTER 5 ROTOR AERODYNAMICSturbulence is generated in the wake itself. The intensity of the superimposed turbulence amounts to about 130 to 150  of the surrounding value. This effect may be of signifi cance with respect to the fatigue strength of the turbines affected (s. Chapt. 16.4.3). The maximum deceleration in the centre of the rotor wake with respect to the sur rounding wind velocity can be seen in Figure 5.12 for example. The extent of the flow retardation cannot be unconditionally generalized. The thrust coefficient and the sur rounding turbulence play a decisive role.;The power characteristics of a wind rotor are primarily shaped by the variation of the rotor power with the wind velocity. After that, the characteristics of the torque and of the rotor thrust are also of significance. These quantities are the decisive inputs for the dimensioning of the components and of the structure of the wind turbine. The rotor power characteristics are usually represented dimensionlessly as a function of the rotor power coefficient of the tipspeed ratio. This somewhat more abstract type of represen tation is more suitable for the theoretical treatment of the rotor.;The simple momentum theory has already provided the basic relation for the order of magnitude of the mechanical power output of the rotor. The aerodynamic rotor theory, i.e. the strip model, yields the interrelationship between the geometrical shape of a real rotor configuration and its detailed power characteristics. Using the rotor power coeffi cient cPR, the rotor power can be calculated as a function of the wind speed, as follows;W  wind velocity (ms) cPR  rotor power coefficient ()   air density (kgm at MSL) PR  rotor power (W) The power coefficient cPR will be calculated using the strip theory for a certain rotor speed to wind speed ratio, i.e. a given tip speed ratio. Repeating this for a number of tip speed ratios yields the variation of the power coefficient with the tip speed ratio. This provides the rotor power coefficient for different wind speeds at a fixed rotor speed or for different rotor speeds at one wind speed. If the rotor is equipped with blade pitch control, the power coefficient curves must be calculated for each blade pitch angle used in its operation. The single power coefficient curve for rotors with fixed blades becomes a family of rotor power curves for rotors with blade pitch control (Fig. 5.13).