The high tower is an essential component of the horizontalaxis turbine, a fact which can be both an advantage and a disadvantage. The costs, which can amount to up to 30  of the overall turbine costs, are, of course, disadvantageous. As the height of the tower increases, transportation, assembly and erection of the tower and servicing of the components also become increasingly more difficult and costly. On the other hand, the specific energy yield of the rotor also increases with tower height. Theoretically, the optimum tower height lies at the point where the two growth functions of construction cost and energy yield intersect. Unfortunately, this point of intersection cannot be specified in any generally applicable form. In larger turbines, construction costs rise more rapidly with increasing tower height than in small turbines. An even greater role is played by the choice of site. At inland sites, i.e. in regions with a high degree of surface roughness, the wind speed increases more slowly with height than at shorebased sites. Higher towers will, therefore, show better returns here than, for example, in offshore applications where the reverse effect is found. In inland regions, large wind turbines with tower heights of 80 m and more are a decisive factor for the economic use of the wind potential.;Next to its height, the second most important design parameter of a tower is its stiffness. Establishing the first natural bending frequency in the right way is an important task in the design. This determines the material required and, ultimately, the construc tion costs. The goal of the tower design is to achieve the desired tower height with the required stiffness at the lowest possible construction cost.;The transportation and the erection procedure is developing into an increasing problem for the latest generation of multimegawatt wind turbines. Tower heights of more than 100 m and towerhead weights of several hundred tons require a diameter at the tower base of more than five meters, with the consequence that road transportation will no longer be feasible. This becomes a strong incentive to find innovative solutions in the tower design.;The materials available for the construction are steel or concrete. Designs range fromlattice constructions to guyed or freestanding tubularsteel towers up to massive con crete structures. The technical requirements posed by the overall system can be met by