individual power station. The availability of one single power station is the probability with which its power is available. A power station pool comprises individual power sta tions of different types and thus, inevitably, of different individual availabilities.;Wind turbines have a certain availability, as does any other power station, even if theavailability of wind turbines is much lower when compared to conventional thermal power stations. The availability of wind turbines is a product of the windrelated avail ability and technical availability. For example, a large wind turbine in the coastal area of North Germany achieves the about 3000 equivalent fullload hours. This corresponds to a windrelated availability of 34 . If this is multiplied by a technical availability of 95 , a total availability of 30  is obtained. This value is called the capacity factor in American literature (s.a. Chapt. 14.5.3).;The firm power of a powerplant pool is determined by a formula based on the individual availabilities 22. To this end, it is irrelevant how the individual availabilities are achieved. The probability theory does not differentiate between the random non availability of conventional power stations and that of wind turbines. Thus, wind turbines, like conventional power stations, do contribute to the firm power of a power plant pool, even if their contribution is much lower. The proportion of firm power con tributed by wind turbines within the power station pool, the capacity value of wind power, basically depends on two parameters; The ratio of delivered wind power to the standard deviation of the power output of theexisting power station pool. (The standard deviation, in turn, is a function of the num ber, the size and the availabilities of the individual power stations.);For small percentages of wind power in the overall power station output  which so far will almost always be the case with the wind turbines feeding into a large intercon nected power system  the contribution to the firm power approximately corresponds to the value of availability 24. That means the wind turbine of the above mentioned ex ample contributes about 30  of its rated power, namely 400 kW, to the firm power. In other words In this example 1 kW wind power replaces 0.30 kW of conventional power. If the economic value of wind power utilisation is to be assessed objectively, this effect must be taken into consideration. Thus, the economic value of a wind turbine is measured not only by the fuel saved in the conventional power stations, but also by the contribution to the firm power of the interconnected supply system.;It is occasionally pointed out in the literature that, although the relationships outlinedare applicable to the delivery of wind power in principle, they do not always meet local conditions. This effect should be taken into consideration in areas where the annual wind speed distribution is negatively correlated with the annual distribution of grid loading. For example, the observation would be applicable to the coldest winter days. The estimate of the contribution of the wind turbines to the firm power station output should, therefore, be lowered since it is especially in those days that the wind to be expected would be below average 25.