The development of a relatively large project for utilizing wind energy such as a wind park consisting of a number of wind turbines is a complex process which is not only subject to technical considerations alone. Apart from the pertinent degree of planning competence, the successful completion of the project requires mainly a sensitive ap proach with regard to the local circumstances and interests. Luckily, wind energy pro jects are not planned and dictated from above but are in almost all cases the result of a local initiative.;The project development includes a number of different aspects and proceeds inphases which, although they cannot be clearly delimited with respect to one another, are still characterized by an increasing degree of concreteness and thus of chances to be implemented. This incremental procedure is of such importance because the means to be provided are multiplying steadily. The investment of time and money into the project development is only justifiable with increasing expectations of success. Many enthusi asts are often not aware of this fact. They expect not infrequently that even an idea having just a vague chance of success of completion should cause potential backers to finance a project development in the hope that all will go well.;18.1.1 Search for a Site and Acquisition of Land Lease Agreements;The planning of a project for wind energy utilisation begins with the search for a suitable site. Naturally, adequate wind velocities take first place in the considerations but other criteria are also becoming increasingly more important. In densely settled areas such as Germany, Denmark or the Netherlands, space plays a decisive role with respect to popu lation density. To find a suitable area which is also large enough for a large wind farm and conflicting interests can be resolved is almost as important today as good wind con ditions. One major issue is the noise emission, it determines the distances to the next residential houses or other critical points. In less densely settled countries, connection to the grid often represents a major obstacle since in many cases, the power systems must be extended first before it becomes possible to connect a wind farm with 50 or 100 MW power to the grid.;Once a suitable site has been found, the next problem is that of the contractual agreements with the property owners for erecting the wind turbines. Since the utilisation of wind energy has become a business, the potential operators are competing for every contract of use with the owners of the land. Entering into the land lease agreements for erecting and operating wind turbines and supplementary facilities is the first step in the development of the project. This step is of importance also because the secured user contracts form the basis of the first important right of project. For being successful in the acquisition of the land lease contracts a close contact to the local inhabitants and to