The rotor is the first element in the chain of functional elements of a wind turbine. Its aerodynamic and dynamic properties, therefore, have a decisive influence on the entire system in many respects. The capability of the rotor to convert a maximum proportion of the wind energy flowing through its swept area into mechanical energy is obviously the direct result of its aerodynamic properties which, in turn, largely determine the overall efficiency of the energy conversion in the wind turbine. As in any other regen erative power generation system, it is this efficiency of the energy collector which is of prime importance with regard to the overall economics of the system. Less obvious, but just as important, are the aerodynamic  and mechanicaldynamic  properties of the rotor with respect to its capability to convert the fluctuating power input provided by the wind into uniform torque whilst, at the same time, keeping the unavoidable dynamic loads on the system as low as possible. The magnitude of the load problems imposed on the downstream mechanical and electrical elements will depend on how well the above requirements are met by the rotor. The control system of the wind turbine is another aspect to be considered when looking at the aerodynamic prop erties. Poor torque characteristics of the rotor or critical flow separation characteristics of the rotor blades can be a severe handicap for the power control of the wind turbine. The control system must, therefore, be adapted to the aerodynamic qualities of the rotor. These aspects illustrate the importance of rotor aerodynamics to the entire system. It would not be possible to achieve an overall understanding of the operation of a wind turbine without at least some knowledge of the aerodynamic characteristics of the rotor and its most important parameters. From the view of the designer, the rotor of a wind turbine is the windturbine specific element of the system and hence must be designed and constructed without any prior examples from other fields of technology to which one could refer. It is for these reasons that a comparatively large amount of space in this book is de voted to the aerodynamic characteristics of the rotor. However, the aim is less to pro vide a detailed description of the theory of rotor aerodynamics but rather to illustrate the interrelationship between the essential design parameters of the rotor and its properties as an energy converter and as an essential part of the total wind turbine.