9.12 NACELLE 371down. Some large turbines have massive loader cranes in order to facilitate repairs and to be largely independent of external cranes.;In recent years there have been unexpectedly many fires in wind turbines which, al though they were often attributable only to trivial causes, have led to the total loss of the turbine in some cases. For this reason, a fire alarm system is more than advisable today. In future, more extensive fire protection systems will possibly also be installed in the nacelle.;In the case of a fire or an other dangerous event will threaten the persons being in the nacelle during maintenance work a safety equipment must be available. It might be necessary to escape the nacelle in very short time. Even there is a tower lift it is not sure that it works particularly in the case of a fire due to damages in the electric system.;By the aid of a socalled fall protection or controlled descent device one or twopersons can leave the nacelle and can lower themselves down to the ground. The equipment must meet the national safety regulations for work at height, for example the European standard EN 341 or the American standard ANSI Z 359. In most countries a special training is required for the maintenance personnel.;As has been explained in Chapter 9.6, the design and static concept of the nacelle are closely associated with the arrangement of the drive train. The rotor bearing assembly, in particular, largely determines the design of the supporting nacelle structure. Assem bly and cost considerations are also determining factors. The most widely used design features a supporting bedplate with a nonload bearing fairing.;In older turbines, the bedplate is commonly a welded steel structure (Fig. 9.61). Thisbedplate must transfer all rotor forces to the tower via the azimuth bearing in its front section. Considering the stiffness required for supporting the drive train components, the weight becomes correspondingly high.;In more recent wind turbines, cast nacelle bedplates are increasingly found which results in cost advantages, particularly in series production. The heavy cast bedplate trans fers the main loads from the rotor directly, on the shortest way, to the tower head. Sometimes a more lightweight welded steel structure is flanged to the bedplate and supports the generator and the equipment in rear of the nacelle (Fig. 9.62).;Various materials have been used for the nonload bearing fairing structure, for example aluminium or steel sheet structures, reinforced by struts. Today laminated shells made of glassfibre reinforced composite material are used for most wind turbines (Fig. 9.63). But also fairing structures made of aluminium can be found in some recent tur bines, for example in Enercon turbines.