15.2 WIND TURBINE NOISE 617in particular, on the supporting structure. All of the more recent wind turbines have constructional elements of this type. What has been said about the gearbox also ap plies to a certain extent to other noiseemitting units in the nacelle. For example, hy draulic pumps and gear motors represent special noise sources.;The generator cooling should not be overlooked either. In some turbines, it is muchtoo noisy even though enough information about the design of quiet ventilation systems is available. In more recent wind turbines socalled passive cooling systems are used. The heat exchanger on the roof of the nacelle becomes large, but the natural wind flow is enough for cooling the inner cooling circle of the electric generator (water or air). In this way noisy and energy consuming fans and pumps are avoided (see Chapt. 9.12.1).;15.2.3 Noise Emission of Current Wind Turbines;The noise emission of wind turbines has been noticeably reduced in the past fifteen years by the constant improvement of design and the optimisation of numerous details. This is true at least of the successful commercial turbines. Experimental wind turbines differing from the common technical concepts are the exceptions to this rule.;By now, the manufacturers have become quite aware of the problem of noise emissions which greatly influence the acceptance of wind turbines. With some wind turbines technical compromises in favour of reduced noise emission have a marked influence on the power output. Frequently, the rotor speed is chosen to be lower than the aerody namic optimum, but other influencing parameters, too, for example the blade pitch an gle at wind speeds around 8 to 10 ms, are chosen for the least possible noise emission, even if this means sacrificing the last few percent of possible power output.;After the power curve, the sound power level has become the most important technical parameter today. The buyers or operators of wind turbines are well advised to ask for independent certification of the manufacturers specifications and to demand corre sponding guarantees from the manufacturer. The noise accreditation nowadays required for every wind energy project is based on the sound power level of the wind turbine. Even if the sound pressure levels generated are influenced by numerous local influences at a particular site, a low sound power level is still the best basis for adhering to the standards prescribed by law.