Prof. U. Htter played a leading role in the study, as did a number of large industrial companies. The central view of the study was that the experimental turbine W34 con structed by U. Htter in the fifties (s. Chapt. 2.4) provided the appropriate technology for modern wind turbines and that this technical concept could be adopted without ma jor technical problems for a rotor size of up to 110 m in diameter and a rated power of 3 Megawatts.;In a first estimate of cost and economic viability, two sizes were examined in greaterdetail a variant with a rotor diameter of 80 m and 1 MW power, and a larger variant with 113 m diameter and 3 MW output. The low ratio of power to rotor diameter in presentday terms is due to the fact that Htter favoured a lightweight construction (he was an aircraft designer) and that he intended to use the wind turbines also inland under weaker wind conditions. The larger variant with 3 MW output was accorded a some what better economic viability, which is why the more extensive sample calculations for the power generation costs of a 100 and 300MW wind park were carried out with this variant. The authors formulated the resume of the study as follows;Although, from a technical point of view, a 3MW turbine with a hub height of 72 mand a rotor diameter of 113 m could be built immediately, it appears to be appropriate, to maintain continuity, to proceed with a smaller step in researching the problems of vibration and control of a large turbine. For this reason, an 1MW turbine with a tower height of about 52 m and a rotor diameter of 80 m should be constructed in the short term. The size of the turbine is already adequate for interconnection with the grid since the power output reaches a significant level 24.;This warning was ignored by the politicians who had commissioned this study andwho wanted to present the public with a quick and spectacular result. They called for the 3MW project to be built, thus giving birth to the Growian (Groe WindkraftAnlage  large wind turbine) project which was to gain much notoriety in subsequent years. It is also part of this story that, although the engineers expressed doubts, they did not mount any determined resistance against the demands of the politicians to immediately con struct a project of this magnitude. The author of this book, too, must confess to having adopted this attitude, having come into contact with the subject of wind energy for the first time in 1978 when working on the socalled Construction Documentation for Growian commission from MAN (Maschinenfabrik Augsburg Nrnberg AG).;Growian in the German press. All the technical problems  of which there were more than enough naturally  were quoted as proof that the generation of power from wind energy was a fantasy of backwardlooking green ideologists. Some presumed that the Growian project had been built intentionally in order to discredit the use of wind energy right from the start and suspected a conspiracy between the utilities and big industry.;In the ensuing years, however, the success of wind energy utilisation was not hampered by the technical problems and the associated headlines about Growian. The suc cessful small turbines from Danish and later also from German production became more and more numerous until the socalled Einspeisegesetz fr Strom aus regenerativen Energien (Law relating to supplying power from regenerative energy sources) brought the breakthrough in Germany.