19.2 SPECIFIC COSTS AND REFERENCE PARAMETERS 817costs for the moulds be accepted. The costs for the moulds and any other special devices must be amortized by way of the numbers sold and must, therefore, be taken into con sideration when calculating the sales price.;Normally, an operable prototype or an experimental turbine can be implemented withsuch a development effort. But it would be naive to believe that this would be enough devel opment work to achieve a commercially viable product. As a rule, a completely new system requires three designengineering revisions in order to arrive at a marketable product. The first draft (prototype) is of a largely experimental nature, the second revision usually results in a moreorless reliable operation and the stability necessary for continuous operation. It is only in the third design stage, when the technical basics of the design are known in detail, that the problem of costoptimized construction can be successfully tackled. It is only this last step in the design work which creates the basis for commercial production. In this last phase, the production structures must also be included in the development process.;Apart from the actual product development, the market launch costs should not beforgotten. These costs, too, are development costs in the wider sense. They affect new comers with new products on the market, in particular. Using newly developed systems which can only be produced in small numbers initially, they must compete with established competitors with a basis of systems from an existing series production pro gramme. In this situation, market launch prices which do not cover the costs are unavoidable. To this must be added the costs for increased guarantees or late develop ment costs at the customer.;For this reason, the development costs for new wind turbines will rise continuouslyuntil they have been successfully launched on the market. The trend is the same as with other products, too The development costs do not decrease but increase with increasing maturity and market penetration of the products. More and more effort is spent on de velopment in order to achieve even a small advantage in the competition. Naturally, this fact also has consequences for the wind turbine industry. Completely new developments require everhigher expenditures, especially if they are also associated with a step into a larger dimension as in recent years. In future, new developments will require three figure sums of millions instead of the twofigure sums which are still adequate today. These must be prefinanced, and lastly amortized via the numbers sold.;19.2.10 Development of Sales Prices for Wind Turbines;It goes without saying that it is the manufacturing costs which form the basis for the price calculations. On the other hand, however, the sales price, which can be achieved are also determined by the market. The market conditions, for example with regard to the proceeds from electricity, differ in the individual countries or, rather on the individ ual markets. It is even just for this reason alone that the providers of wind turbines can set differing prices. In addition, a lot of other factors play a role, such as the available wind or the provisions for financing. Figure 19.14 shows the different specific kW prices paid in the US 5. Interpreting the development of prices in this period requires taking into consideration several partly contrary influences. In the nineteennineties, series production was still at a rather modest level. The average turbine power was scarcely more than one megawatt. As mass production increased and constructional