The aerodynamic design of wind turbine rotors requires more than knowledge of the elementary physical laws of energy conversion as outlined in Chapter 4. The designer faces the problem of finding the relationship between the actual shape of the rotor, e.g. the number of rotor blades or the airfoil of its blades, and its aerodynamic properties. The design aerodynamics are even more complex because numerous other aspects have to be taken into account, especially the strength and stiffness of the rotor blades and the noise generated by the rotor due to its aerodynamics. The real rotor therefore is always a compromise of the ideal aerodynamic shape and the requirements coming from strength and stiffness and last but not least by considering the manufacturing costs. As with most technical designs, this design process is carried out iteratively, in practice. In the beginning, there is an idea of the rotor configuration which promises to have certain desired properties. A calculation is then carried out for this configuration and checked to see the extent to which the expected result is actually obtained. As a rule, the results will not be completely satisfactory in the first instance but the mathematical physical model provides an insight into how the given parameters of the rotor design have affected the end result. This provides an opportunity for improving the design by applying the appropriate corrections. It would exceed the scope of this book to describe all mathematical models currently used in designing the aerodynamics of wind turbine rotors. Nevertheless, the main ap proaches to the theory of rotor aerodynamics will be explained since they are useful in understanding the results of the calculations, and thus the shape of wind turbine rotors. It is German aerodynamicist Albert Betzs merit to have formulated not only the ba sic physical laws of energy conversion but also a complete theory of the wind rotor (s. Chapt. 4.1). In the years to follow, this theory was developed further by numerous other authors. The theoretical treatment of the wind rotor was especially stimulated by the evolving aviation aerodynamics. In the twenties of the past century, the aerodynamicists were faced with the task of providing reliable and scientifically based mathematical tools for aircraft designers who had been working on a rather more empirical basis up to that point. It was the task of finding the aerodynamically optimum wing, in particular, which was of crucial significance to the advancement of aviation and which, ultimately, resulted in the evolution of a special discipline of applied flow mechanics, the socalled wing theory. Together with this wing theory, the theoretical models of propeller and turbine design calculation developed in this period form a starting point for the calculation of the aerodynamics of wind turbine rotors. The understanding of the aerodynamics of wind turbine rotors was significantly enhanced especially by H. Glauert in the thirties 1. Glauerts propeller theory was then applied to wind turbine rotors, and refined, by U. Hutter and G. Schmitz and a few others 2, 3. In recent decades, intensive work with helicopter rotors has resulted in further findings. Americans Wilson and Lissaman have published calculation methods tailored especially for EDP systems 4.