7.2 AEROELASTIC STABILITY OF ROTOR BLADES 237of the lift forces, is located at approximately a quarter of the chord length (Fig. 7.3). If the aerodynamic centre is located in front of the elastic axis, the lift creates a torsional moment which increases the angle of attack. This moment increases with the square of the free stream velocity. However, the restoring moment resulting from the wings torsional stiffness is independent of the speed, so that at a certain speed, the speed of divergence, a torsional instability develops.;In most wind turbine rotor blades, this static divergence does not pose a problem. Itshould nevertheless be checked in all real cases. It must be noted here that a torsional moment in the sense of a greater angle of attack is not only caused by the aerodynamic lift force, but additionally by a component of the centrifugal force, if the rotor blade is twisted out of the plane of rotation, or when the rotor has a coning angle.;7.2.2 Natural Frequencies and Vibration Modes;In order to detect aeroelastic instabilities which can lead to vibrations, the natural frequen cies and vibration modes of the rotor blade must first be determined (Fig. 7.4). The mathe matical calculation is generally based on the isolated model of a stationary, fixed rotor blade. This can be used for determining the natural frequencies and eigenmodes with suffi cient accuracy. Other influences such as, for example, the stiffening effect of the centrifugal force with a rotating rotor are comparatively small.;The lowest natural frequency is generally the first natural flapwise frequency, followed by the first natural bending frequency in the chordwise direction. As already mentioned in Chapter 7.2.1, the first natural torsional frequency is comparatively high so that the static divergence does not present a problem.;The resonance diagram (Fig. 7.5) shows how the natural frequencies of the rotor bladebehave with respect to possible vibrational excitations. In this example, the wind turbine has a nominal rotational speed of 16 rpm in the fullload range. At this speed, there are no