8.5 BLADE CONNECTION TO THE ROTOR HUB 293process, the fibres are drawn through a resin bath and are thus impregnated with the matrix material. This process can be carried out almost fully automatically. Winding pattern and filament tension are controlled numerically with the aid of a computer pro gram. This winding technique originally has been developed for the production of rota tionally symmetric pressurised vessels where its success has been quite convincing. In principle, winding can also be used with more complicated shapes, but its disadvantages then become apparent. The fibre orientation can no longer be easily adapted to the di rection of stress as is possible with laminating. Its orientation is determined by geomet ric shape and by the sequence of the winding process, with the consequence that the components become comparatively heavy. Moreover, surface quality is relatively poor due to the unavoidable grooves produced.;An important aspect of assessing fibre composite materials with respect to their suitabil ity for rotor blades is quality assurance in the manufacturing process. The relatively complicated manufacturing processes whereby the production of the material and of the component are inextricably linked, require intensive control measures. Even slight care lessness, such as deviations from curing conditions or soiled glueing surfaces, take their toll in a severe degradation in the strength properties of the finished product.;Apart from the actual rotor blade design and the material used, the quality and weight of the rotor blades are essentially determined by the design concept of the blade connec tion to the rotor hub. Designing the blade connection to the rotor hub is one of the most demanding tasks in the whole rotor blade design process. For one, transferring forces from fibre composite structures into metallic materials is difficult in principle, due to the greatly differing material properties. An additional problem with wind turbines is that the rotor forces are concentrated around the areas of the blade root and rotor hub and that, at the same time, the rotor is subjected to extremely high dynamic loading. Apart from the introduction of epoxy resin, progress with respect to rotor blade weight optimi sation has in recent years been achieved, above all, by producing considerably lighter blade connecting structures. Current rotor blades display the following essential con cepts for the design of the blade connection;Particularly in older rotor blades with polyester matrix material, heavy dual steel flanges are common. The blade root is clamped between an inner and an outer flange and the two flanges are bolted together (Fig. 8.22). The connection to the rotor hub is via an external flange ring with heavyduty tension bolts. Rotor blade flanges of this design frequently constitute up to one third of the total rotor blade weight. The proportion of manufacturing cost of the rotor blade is correspondingly high. With the use of epoxy resin instead of polyester more efficient blade connection designs have been developed.