The following main areas of controlled systems can be defined. Their characteristics are dominating the design of the control system  aerodynamic power and torque of the rotor  dynamic characteristics of the blade pitch mechanism  aeroelastics of blade pitching  dynamics of the mechanical drive train  electrical characteristics of the generator. If operating conditions are difficult, in isolated operation or operation on a weak grid, the characteristics of the grid and sometimes of the generator loads must be added to these.;The torque of the rotor depends on the wind speed and the pitch angle of the rotor blades as actuating variable. The steadystate characteristics of this controlled system form the family of power characteristics of the rotor and the family of torque character istics (Chapt. 5.2). Considering the control system, it should be remembered again that the aerodynamic rotor concept, as it is reflected in the power or torque characteristics, has a direct influence on control response. Nonstationary effects during the buildup of the aerodynamic rotor torque may also have to be considered. Apart from the changing wind speed, these can occur when the blade pitching rates are relatively high.;The power and torque characteristics of the rotor, calculated in a steady state (cpand cm characteristics) also form the basis for the mathematical simulation of the control system (s.a. Chapt. 5). Nonlinear dependences of the cp and cm values on the wind speed or the blade pitch angle and the rotor speed, respectively, must be linear ised in certain partsections.;The magnitude of the pitching moment around the longitudinal axis of the blade, which must be provided by the blade pitch mechanism, is determined by a complex interac tion of forces and moments. Apart from the torsional moments resulting from the mass inertia of the blades and the friction in the blade bearings, it is the aerodynamic mo ments, above all, which become effective to greatly varying degrees depending on the operating conditions. Wind speed, the aerodynamic angle of attack and rotor speed affect these aerodynamic moments to an extraordinary degree.;The forces and moments caused by aeroelasticity have an influence on the controlresponse which is not to be underestimated. The bending of the rotor blades is almost always accompanied by a torsional movement, so that elastic deformations of the rotor blades have a direct influence on the aerodynamic angle of attack. Slender and thus in most cases also flexible rotor blades might be advantageous from the viewpoint of aerodynamic performance, but from a control point of view they are difficult to govern. On closer inspection, difficulties concerning the control system of a turbine frequently