(deformations, accelerations, stresses) under the influence of external forces can then be calculated. The computer programs based on this can also be applied to the components of wind turbines.;It is of little help to proceed on the basically correct assumption, that the dynamic response, and with it the stresses, can only be calculated correctly if the elastic character istics of the entire turbine are taken into consideration. An elastic structural model of the entire turbine would inevitably require an enormous computational effort resulting in a corresponding amount of data, with the associated risk of missing the critical points.;It is therefore important to use a good measure of feel for how the components are dynamically coupled, in order to define subsystems with the aid of which the significant loads can be calculated. In most cases, for example, the rotor blade vibration can be con sidered in isolation, possibly coupled with the behaviour of the drive train in the case of the leadlag vibration. The rotortower system can also be generally considered in isola tion with regard to the bending vibration of the tower.;If the wind turbine is equipped with blade pitch control and a variablespeed rotor, its functional behaviour has an influence on the loading. An algorithm for the blade pitch and speed control of the rotor is thus necessary. In most cases a linear model is suffi cient for considering the influence of the control characteristics.;It is not necessary to proceed on the basically correct assumption, that the dynamicresponse, and with it the stresses, can only be calculated correctly if the functional and elastic characteristics of the entire turbine are taken into consideration. An elastic struc tural model of the entire turbine inevitably requires an enormous computational effort resulting in a corresponding amount of data, with the associated risk of missing the critical points. It is therefore important to use a good measure of feel for how the com ponents are dynamically coupled, in order to define subsystems with the aid of which the significant loads can be calculated. In most cases, for example, the rotor blade vibra tion can be considered in isolation, possibly coupled with the behaviour of the drive train in the case of the leadlag vibration. The rotortower system can also be generally considered in isolation with regard to the bending vibration of the tower.;6.7.2 Representation of the Wind Turbulence;There are basically two methods for determining wind turbulence by theoretical means. One is via the energy spectrum of the turbulence, the other is by means of an actual wind speed time history (s. Chapt. 13).;Independently of the chosen method, one phenomenon affecting the reaction of thewind rotor to turbulence must not be overlooked. In the open atmosphere, wind speed and turbulence are always unevenly distributed in space over the rotorswept area. Many gusts strike the rotor not as a whole, but only on one side or only partially. This fact is significant for the response of the structure as regards the rotating rotor. The rotor blades beat into the gusts, i.e. the local wind speed changes, at their tangential speed.