Discussing the characteristics of energy sources without simultaneously considering the impact they have on the environment is no longer possible these days. Wind turbines do not pollute the atmosphere with carbon dioxide, sulphur or hydrocarbons, nor will they cause problems for present and following generations with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste. The utilisation of wind energy thus unreservedly deserves the attrib ute environmentally friendly. All the same, even the operation of wind turbines is not without its effects on the environment.;In contrast to large conventional power plants, the environmental impact of singlewind turbines only affects their immediate surroundings. This localisation of their im pact indicates that it must be seen as siterelated and can, therefore, largely be avoided by a sensible choice of site. Even in the densely populated industrial countries, the areas designated for the exploitation of wind energy are not so densely built up so as not to offer even some limited choice. Then again, sites which are entirely unpopulated are indeed an exception. Wind turbines must, therefore, be acceptable with respect to their environmental impact, for instance noise emission, in more or less densely populated areas and their environmental impact must be considered with this in mind.;The most important effects on the immediate environment emanating from wind turbines can be calculated objectively and can today be substantiated by long years of ex perience. This includes noise emission, shadow effects or possible interference with radio and television signals. Possible effects on plant and animal life, especially with respect to the behaviour of birds, have been researched many times, but lasting changes in these areas, caused by the installation and operation of wind turbines, can only be ascertained over very long periods of time.;The visual effect of a large number of big wind turbines in the landscape is increasingly the subject of controversial discussions, and the assessment of this aspect will always be subjectively tinged. It also reveals a general attitude towards the value of renewable energies. The personal attitude of an individual depends on whether he or she places a higher value on the contribution of wind turbines to the global protection of the environment or on the preservation of a local landscape. Nevertheless in many cases there are oppositions against the installation of wind turbines from the people living nearby.