In addition, the location of the mechanical rotor brake, which can be installed on theprimary shaft or on the secondary highspeed side, plays a role (Chapt. 9.7). Up to now, no generally accepted quantitative correlation of these technical features of a wind turbine with the application factor to be selected for the gearbox is available. Sweeping recommendations for wind turbines with threebladed rotors are clearly much too vague 12.;For the gearboxes of older stallcontrolled threebladed wind turbines with inductiongenerators coupled directly to the grid, application factors of around 2.0 were chosen. More recent stallcontrolled turbines make do with lower factors but the gearboxes are greatly improved.;Wind turbines with effective blade pitch control generally manage with lower application factors for the transmission if they can be operated with variable speed. However, there are only very few systematic analyses of the gearbox load spectra available for this design. In comparison with the fixedspeed turbines, application factors around 1.5 or somewhat less should suffice. It is a matter of fact that in older wind turbines, produced in the Nineties, mistakes has been made in an appropriate dimensioning of the gearbox. In a systematic analysis of failures and a recalculation it turned out, that many gear boxes did not have a sufficient service factor, so that gearbox failures were of necessity 13.;There are at least two more factors in gearbox technology which are in use for characterising the external load situation for the transmission. The operating factor, accord ing to VDI 2151, has basically the same definition as the application factor 14. How ever, it also contains internal gearbox safety factors and is thus always about 5 to 10  higher than the application factor. Due to the external load criteria being linked with internal gearbox safety factors in this way, the definition of the operating factor is less clear and it should, therefore, be increasingly replaced by the application factor.;(American Gear Manufacturers Association) standard, it is defined much like the appli cation factor, but it takes into consideration a given statistical gearbox failure probabil ity. The numerical value of the service factor is approximately 10 to 20  above the application factor 15.;Instead of the factors mentioned, some gearbox manufacturers characterise theirgearboxes by specifying the rated power of the gearbox according to the AGMA stan dard. The quotient of the AGMA power and the rated power of the wind turbine corre sponds to the application factor in practice (even if not precisely by definition). In view of the numerous definitions, the designer of the wind turbine system must have a clear agreement with the gearbox manufacturer regarding the dimensioning factors to be applied. It would be desirable for the application factor to win general recognition.;A concluding remark on gearbox dimensioning relates to breaking strength. Dynamically loaded gearboxes which are dimensioned with application factors of the order of 2, generally have a breaking strength which is at least three times the rated torque. This failure moment is not achieved in normal wind turbine operation. Only the generator shortcircuit load case can cause a higher torque peak in the drive train. In order to protect the gearbox and the rotor shaft from this, overload clutches are built into the highspeed shaft in most cases (Chapt. 9.9).