116 CHAPTER 5 ROTOR AERODYNAMICSdifferent geographic altitudes and with changing seasonal temperatures. To avoid losses in the energy supply, a different fixed blade pitch angle must be selected at lower air density, and the rotor speed may also have to be adapted (s. Chapt. 14.4.7). The surface roughness due to the operational contamination of the rotor blades also has a noticeable negative effect on the power curve of the stallcontrolled system which does not occur in this form in pitch controlled systems. As a result of all these problems, the advocates of the simpler principle of stall con trol decided to change to a more complex type of construction which is generally called active stall. The rotor blades are adjusted in operation over their entire length and in each case a matehing blade pitch angle is selected for different levels of wind speed, taking into consideration changes in air density (i.e. summer and winter operation) and different surface qualities of the rotor blades (soiling). At extreme wind velocities, the rotor blades are placed into their standstill position and turned with their trailing edge forward into the wind to reduce the wind load (Fig. 5.29). Actually, the term stall control is not justified, even in this method. As before, this is still passive power limiting by flow separation at the rotor blades, without using a closed control loop where the power is the reference input variable. The constructional complexity of the active stall systems scarcely differs any more from that for pitch angle controlled systems. The rotor blades are joined rotatably about their longitudinal axis via roller bearings to the rotor hub and, in principle, the adjust ment of the blade pitch angle requires the same type of actuators (s. Chapt. 8.4).;Fig. 5.29. Active stall control with a number of blade pitch angles in operation and in standstill The advocates for the active stall method point out that, because there are fewer and shorter adjustments in comparison with the conventional blade pitch control arrange ment, the wear of the pitch mechanism is less. Furthermore, they emphasize that the