Although the use of concrete for constructing towers of wind turbines has a long tradi tion, at least in Denmark, the concrete towers, like the lattice towers, have been largely replaced by the tubularsteel towers prevailing today. Concrete allows very high towers to be built without this being associated with unsolvable transport problems. The long construction period, too, can be shortened today by means of various methods of using prefabricated parts.;Concrete structures are implemented in various types of construction and static principles. Curing the concrete on site is called sitemixed concrete. This is contrasted by the use of prefabricated concrete components that are assembled on site. The static principle is characterised by the fact whether the steel reinforcement is not prestressed or whether the reinforcement is prestressed, sometimes with special tensioning elements with the aid of which the permissible tensile stresses in the concrete can be increased. In the former case, the concrete is simple reinforced concrete and in the second case it is prestressed concrete.;The concrete towers for wind turbines are constructed in accordance with these manufacturing and static methods which in each case have their specific advantages and dis advantages. The decision for which is the best method of construction depends on the site where it is not only the position of the site with regard to accessibility that is of significance but also the availability of an appropriate infrastructure. This, too, influ ences the cost to no minor degree so that cost comparisons between concrete towers should not be made in an abstract manner either with regard to the different types of concrete construction or in comparison with tubularsteel or lattice towers. The same also applies to the construction time, which is also a cost factor.;With the traditional reinforcedconcrete type of construction, the concrete is either mixed in liquid form on site or delivered in special vehicles as is done in most cases today. The concrete is poured into a timber form into which the steel reinforcement has first been inserted in the form of a steel wire mat. In this formwork, the concrete hard ens so that the required shape emerges when the boarding is removed.;This type of construction, called sitemixed concrete, is also used for producingtowers of wind turbines. The formwork is pushed upward step by step as climbing or sliding form (Fig. 12.22). Since the lower part must always have set before a new stage can be placed on top, the construction time is very long. In addition, the setting of the concrete is dependent on temperature, which is why it is not possible to work in severe frost conditions in spite of the antifreeze additives used today. In addition, the sitemixed type of construction also requires a corresponding building infrastructure with regard to the production or delivery of the concrete. For this reason, the method is normally not economic for one or only a few turbines. Sitemixed construction can only be an economical alternative for a wind park with a large number of turbines. Nevertheless, the tower of the prototype of the Enercon E112 with a height of 120 m was built with sitemixed concrete (Fig. 12.23).