The large variety of possible applications suggests that the market for wind turbines must be nearly unlimited. With respect to the fields of application, the market, under present conditions, is concentrated almost exclusively on powergenerating wind turbines in tended to feed into large interconnected grids. Since turbines of the maximum possible size are of advantage for this application, it is mainly turbines in the megawatt range which are being produced today. The markets have formed primarily where a reliable and, if possible, legally guaranteed payment for the power fed into the grid is guaranteed the prerequisite for the investors to invest in this technology with expectation of a return for the capital spent.;In the meantime, the utilization of wind energy has reached a cost level, on the basisof which power generation costs within the range of conventional power generation become possible at good sites (s.a. Chapt. 20), making this type of power generation economically attractive also for the large power producers. The structure of the markets is changing correspondingly and is approaching that of the traditional electricity indus try, a change which also has consequences for the wind turbine industry. The large industrial concerns, which have always been the partners and suppliers of the electricity producers, have discovered wind turbines as a product and are playing an increasing role in the market for wind turbines.;Apart from feeding energy into the grid, the numerous smallscale applications, forexample heating with wind energy, water pumps or the desalination of sea water, have not achieved any significant commercial importance until the present day. The hopes that with these technologies, large markets could be found in the third world have not been realized. In these countries, the necessary capital and the organisational precondi tions are lacking. The future will show whether the utilisation of wind energy will play a greater role in this field.;16.5.1 Historical Development of the Markets;Commercial utilisation of wind energy for the generation of power started in Denmark in about 1980. At the beginning, the number of wind turbines increased only slowly In 1980, there were only about 50 wind turbines with a total power output of about 2 megawatts until public subsidies pushed the application of wind turbines more effec tively. In the US, federal support of windpower utilisation was introduced in California via the wellknown tax credits in 1982. Within a few years, by about 198586, the Cali fornian wind farms, with about 16000 wind turbines, had emerged, providing a total power output of 1500 megawatts (Chapt. 2.5). As a result of this first boom of wind energy utilisation in the United States, the Danish wind turbine industry developed, and was able to supply about 40  of the capacity installed in California.;After the tax credit legislation had run its course in California and due to the slump inthe American market, the focus of development shifted to Europe. Due to the expansion of industrial capacities in Denmark, and to a much smaller extent in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, manufacturers increasingly looked for markets in Europe. The numbers of wind turbines in Denmark rose rapidly. In the meantime, wind turbine