The extent of La Cours success became apparent when the Lykkegard company began with the industrial utilisation of his developments. By 1908, it had already built 72 electricitygenerating wind turbines, modelled after the test station at Askov, which supplied power to rural settlements. This development was accelerated by the dramatic rise in fuel prices during World War I, so that by 1918, about 120 wind turbines were in operation 4.;One of the main technical reasons for this success of wind power utilisation for thegeneration of electricity was the fact that many rural areas of Denmark were supplied with direct current even after World War II. Operating a wind turbine in parallel with diesel or gasenginetype power stations generating direct current was technically eas ier than with alternating current.;The LaCourLykkegard turbines were built in various sizes with power outputsranging from 10  35 kW. The rotor, with a diameter of up to 20 m, had four shutter sails, making it possible to remain below a certain rotationalspeed limit. Yawing was carried out by two fantail type side wheels. The electrical generator was installed at the base of the latticed steel tower and was driven by the rotor via a long shaft and interme diary gearbox. Electricity was fed into the small isolated consumer grids via a buffer battery (Fig. 2.2).;These grids were fed by diesel or gasengine generators and supplied larger farms orsmall settlement areas. The overall efficiency of the wind turbines was indicated to be about 22 . At a good site, the annual energy yield amounted to about 50 000 kWh.;The operational experience gained with these wind turbines was analysed in depthlater on behalf of the Reichsarbeitsgemeinschaft Windenergie (Working Group Wind Power of the German Reich) 4. It turned out that their reliability was normally ex tremely high. There are reports of wind turbines of this type, which were operated be tween 1924 and 1943, where the bearings and gears had to be replaced for the first time after 20 years of operation.;In Denmark, interest in the generation of electricity by means of wind power wanedafter World War I. Diesel fuel was relatively inexpensive during this period. However, the situation changed again with the outbreak of World War II. Fuel prices soared and immediately the interest in using wind power for the generation of electricity was re awakened. Lykkegard wind turbines which had been closed down were taken into ser vice again and several new ones were built.;In addition to the La Cour concept, which was somewhat outdated by now, a newmanufacturer entered the market with more modern designs. The F.L. Smidth company, a manufacturer of machines for the production of cement whose entire export market had collapsed due to the events of the war, turned to building wind turbines 5. Using the name of Aeromotor for their design, Smidth started by developing a wind turbine with a rotor diameter of 17.5 m and a power output of about 50 kW at a wind speed of approx. 11 ms. The aerodynamic design of the rotor with two profiled rotor blades made of laminated wood was in keeping with the stateoftheart achieved in the mean time. The twobladed rotor was designed for a tipspeed ratio of about 9. The rotor blades had no twist and could not be pitched. Speed was limited by an aerodynamic brake. Twelve wind turbines of this type were built, some with a lattice steel tower (Fig. 2.3), the majority with concrete towers (Fig.2.4).