20  25 m. In these depths of the water monopile foundations are feasible. This limits the cost for the foundations to a relatively low level.;Table 19.25 shows a detailed cost calculation for wind park project in the coastal areain the Baltic Sea. The project, having a total power of 300 MW, consists of 100 wind turbines. The turbines feature a rotor diameter of 90 m and rated power of 3 MW. The tower height is projected with 80 m above sea level. The water depths on this site are between 15 and 20 m. The power transfer to the coast is over a distance of 30 km on a voltage level of 150 kV. The transfer line will be connected to a landbased substation. The coast for the transfer line and the substation on land are included in the project investment budget.;When greater depths of water in the North Sea are made accessible for the offshore utilization of wind energy, the cost pattern shown here will change. The distances from the coast will then become greater and with them the costs will rise, not only for the foundations but also for the electrical link to the shore. In addition, a new generation of larger offshore wind turbines of the 5 MW power class is available so that the cost structure also changes from that point of view.;A first step into the open sea was taken with the German experimental wind park Alpha Ventus (s.a. Chapt. 17.3). For this wind park, installed in 2009 and consisting of 12 turbines of 5 MW power each, development and construction costs of  250 million;pha Ventus (s.a. Chapt. 17.3). For this wind park, installed in 2009 and consisting of 12 turbines of 5 MW power each, development and construction costs of  250 millionwere quoted 9. The specific costs are thus slightly more than  4000 per kilowatt. Naturally, this relatively small pilot project is not representative of the future, far larger commercial wind parks remote from the coast, but it provides a first reference point.;The investment costs for the future commercial wind parks in waters remote from thecoast in the North Sea and the Baltic have been investigated in numerous studies in past years 10. Cost calculations from actual projects which are ever more accurate have also become available for some time. The cost assumptions contained in Table 19.26 relate to an installation in the North Sea and do not contain the costs of the electricity transfer from the land to the coast. In the North Sea and in the Baltic, a number of large HVDC cable links across the open sea and up to the shores are planned to which the future wind parks will be connected to the transformer stations in the form of several clusters. These large transmission lines and transformer stations are being constructed and financed by the two large utilities Eon and Vattenfall as mentioned before.;Nevertheless the investment costs for these projects will be considerably higher thanthose of the previous offshore wind parks close to the coast. Also the electricity generat ing costs will be higher even taking into account the higher, fully developed wind veloc ity over the open sea (s.a. Chapt. 20.2.2). It must be noted with respect to this prognosis that this is an estimate from the presentday point of view. A special industrial infra structure and logistics will be created to the same degree to which these projects are implemented. When these structures have been developed and are operable, the question of costs will arise again. It can be assumed with some justification that the costs for the foundation structures, the transportation and the erection at sea and, in accordance with the abovementioned agreements with the utilities, also the costs for the electrical grid coupling on land can be lowered.