 Pressure of soil and ground water on the foundation  Structural inaccuracies in tower and foundation. These items are not covered by any generally valid standards, reference being made instead to the need for individual consideration.;Safety factors have the purpose of compensating for inaccuracies in the load assumptions and calculating methods, structural inaccuracies and, not lastly, for deviations in the actual strength values from the specified material characteristics. The safety factor is the ratio of the design value to the calculated or specified value. With respect to the loads, the design value is the result of multiplying the calculated value by the safety factor to be assumed. With regard to the material parameters, the design value is formed from the specified value divided by the safety factor. Defining meaningful safety factors initially requires a classification of the consequences of the failure of a component. According to IEC 641001, the components are graded in two classes with respect to their partial safety factors or potential safety factors;In addition, higher safety factors are defined for the limit loads (fracturefailure of sta bility, critical deformations) than for the fatigue loads. Table 6.19 contains the safety factors for the design loads, to be specified according to IEC 641001;Table 6.19. Partial safety factors for design loads according to lEC 641001 (simplified);The safety factors for the material parameters depend on the type of material, on theone hand, and, on the other hand, on the type of loading. They must be specified in close relationship with the material standards. It is necessary to observe the national standards such as, e.g. DIN 18 800 for structural steel or DIN 10451 for reinforced concrete. IEC 641001 generally recommends a value of not less than 1.1 for the main strength values but values of 1.0 are also permissible for the fatigue strength.;When defining the safety factors it may be tempting to compensate for a less accuratecalculation by applying high safety factors. According to all previous experience, this strategy will lead to success only in small installations, if at all. The larger plants must