202 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSESrotor blades. A very careful analysis and optimisation of the emergency shut down procedure is required in order to remain within the given load limits under these conditions.;In turbines with blade pitch control, a failure in the control system can lead to a pitch angle which is inappropriate for the operating condition. This is directly associated with special aerodynamic loads and indirectly with other consequences, such as rotor over speed.;A fault in the control system or in the yaw drive can result in extreme crosswindsacting on the rotor. Loads due to extreme crosswind angles or yaw angles must, there fore, be seen not only against the background of extreme meteorological conditions but also with a view to technical defects.;A short circuit in the electrical generator causes an extreme load on the drive train. The generator shortcircuit torque can amount to up to seven times the value of the rated torque (Chapt. 9.1). However, the maximum torque is limited to a low value by the coupling existing between the gearbox and the generator, usually to 3 to 4times the nominal torque (s.a. Chapt. 8.9).;Rotor overspeed in most cases is a consequence of other faults. Defects in the blade pitch control or a sudden loss of the electrical load, for example in case of a power sys tem shutdown, can cause the operating speed of the rotor to be exceeded. Rotor run away is basically the most severe safety hazard in a wind turbine (Chapt. 14.7).;A large enough safety margin between the permissible operating speed and themaximum speed before fracture is therefore required. For large wind turbines this margin is relatively small, in the order of 50  of the rated speed. A greater safety mar gin would increase the mass of the rotor blades to a noneconomical limit. Therefore the reliability of the rotor blade feathering system is very important to ensure the stop of the rotor in a case of emergency.;The mass balance of the rotor blades has to be checked very carefully in the manufac turing process. However defects during operation for example in the case of damage to the rotor blades, loss of a structural part or the formation of ice on the rotor blades, an unbalance of the running rotor must be expected until the rotor stops.;Therefore, a certain unbalance mass must be assumed, the magnitude of which mustbe related to the size of the rotor. The resultant load case must be verified with respect to strength as well as any vibration problems which may be present.