Controlled variablespeed operation of a wind rotor is only possible with an electric generator which is operated with a downstream inverter. An alternator operated with variable speed inevitably generates alternating current with varying frequency. The latter can only be adjusted to the required constant grid frequency by the inverter. In verter technology is expensive and causes losses of efficiency. But apart from reducing the dynamic loads considerably, it permits an operation of the wind rotor which meets the requirements of its specific aerodynamic properties better than operation at constant speed. Generatorinverter systems are, therefore, used more and more.;Conventional generator technology supplies few models for this. Prime movers such assteam turbines or diesel engines do not require variablespeed generators. Variablespeed generator systems are only used in some special cases of application. In large oceangoing ships variablespeed generators with inverters and driven by a propelling shaft have been in use for about a decade 12. The use of these shaft generators on ships has mainly eco nomic reasons. If the generator is driven by the ships propelling shaft and thus by the ships main diesel engine, the electric energy is generated by cheap heavy fuel oil. The speed of the propeller shaft varies, however, especially in ships without variablepitch propeller, so that the variablefrequency threephase current generated must be converted to a constant fre quency by an inverter for feeding the onboard power system.;In electric drive technology, variablespeed motors, needed for many different purposes,could not be implemented without inverters. In some cases these concepts represent the starting point for the development of variablespeed generator systems for wind turbines.;A variablespeed generator system can be implemented both on the basis of a synchronous generator or by using an induction generator. While in the synchronous generator, all the current generated must be converted, the induction generator offers slip as a starting point. The power loss (slip power) can be fed back into or added to the power output flow