The design engineer, with his choice of conceptual design features, determines the load ing on the components within certain limits. The general aim must be to reduce the loads to a level which is the unavoidable minimum. The loading on the rotor and the turbine in a steady mean wind and that resulting from the weight of the components is unavoidable. Loads resulting from the turbulence of the wind are avoidable to a certain degree, however. Damping these dynamic loads by suitable design features, allowing the turbine to exhibit a softer dynamic response, is a key problem in the design.;As a first step, it will be attempted to reduce the high alternating loads on the rotorblades. The dynamic response of the rotor to the wind gusts affects, in particular, the flapwise bending moment in the root area of the blades. This load is of decisive signifi cance for the fatigue loading on the rotor blades.;In addition  and this aspect is just as important  the cyclically changing total rotorforces and moments must be evened out. These loads are passed on to the other turbine components and determine the dynamic load level for the mechanical drive train, the yawing system and the tower of the turbine.;On the one hand, there is the school still adhering to the old English motto Make it stiff and strong and you will never be wrong. The older, stallcontrolled Danish wind turbines followed this principle. On the other hand, there is the endeavour to keep the dynamic response of the design and structure as soft as possible so as to reduce material stress. It goes without saying that this approach is the more promising one for large turbines even if it is associated with more development work.;Considering the sum total of the rotor forces during a steadystate but asymmetrical wind flow, serious differences become apparent which depend on the number of rotor blades. This is clearly illustrated by the example of the aerodynamic yaw moment and the driving torque. While one and twobladed rotors generate considerable alternating loads with respect to the yaw moment and a pulsating drive torque, the rotor moments almost completely balance out overall during a revolution in rotors having more than two blades (Fig. 6.28). Onebladed rotors behave quite unfavourably in this respect. Their geometric asymmetry, and with it their aerodynamic asymmetry, causes extreme, alternating rotor forces and moments even with a symmetrical wind flow.;The critical influence of the number of blades becomes even clearer if the dynamicresponse of the elastic rotor is also considered. This is especially true of rotors with less than three blades, a fact which has long been known empirically. The deformations experienced by a rotor under the influence of external forces, primarily bending of the blades, produce inertia forces due to the structural masses being accelerated. The mo ment of inertia of the rotor around its instantaneous axis of motion is of importance to