14.6 WIND REGIME AND ENERGY YIELD 589method are largely used (s.a. Chapt. 13.5.2). For the WASPcompliant calculation, an overall uncertainty range of 10  is specified. Assuming the energy yield value calcu lated without deduction lies within the limits of a uniformly distributed probability curve, it will be achieved with a probability of 50  (often called P50 value (probabil ity 50 ) in English literature). A positive or negative transgression is assumed to have equal probability in both directions.;As discussed in Chapter 14.3, other energy losses may occur. Frequent yawing, hystere sis phenomena when cutting the wind turbine in and out, negative influences in the case of complex terrain, high turbulence on site, air density effects in summer and winter operation and soiling of the rotor blades in operation have already been mentioned. These losses are generally not quantified since they do not always occur. They must, therefore, be accounted for by an overall safety deduction from the calculated energy yield.;If all questions contained in the abovementioned points can be answered positively,an additional overall safety deduction of 5  is high enough to cover these unquantifi able losses which may possibly occur. In the case of an uncertain wind forecast or difficult siting conditions, a greater safety deduction, for example 10 , may also be appropriate. If, however, the conditions are estimated to be extraordinarily uncertain, then the wind forecast and the siting conditions should be analysed in detail. There is little sense in covering over planning defects with everincreasing overall safety deduc tions. Comprehensive and accurate planning must definitely be accorded priority, at least in the case of relatively large investment projects.;In almost every real case a certain doubt remains as to the reliability of the measured or assumed wind data. For this reason, one should recall the sensitivity of the expected energy output with respect to the wind data. The determining factors for the energy yield are the mean annual wind speed, the frequency distribution of the wind speeds and the increase of wind speed with height. By far the most important parameter is the mean annual wind speed. Theoretically, the turbines energy output increases with the third power of the mean wind speed. However, this only applies as long as the power capture of the rotor is not limited by the control system, i.e. only with partial load opera tion. The increase in the energy yield thus depends on the ratio partialload to fullload, i.e. on the installed power per rotorswept area, taking into account all operating modes, and is lower than the theoretically possible increase (Fig. 14.31).;The frequency distribution of the wind speeds has considerably less influence on theenergy output. It changes with geographic location, topography, mean wind velocity and altitude (Fig. 13.32). The shape factor k determines the shape of the distribution curve, whereas A depends on the mean wind velocity (see Chapt. 13).;With respect to the topographic andor geographic dependence, the bandwidth extends from e.g. about k  1.5 on the Aegean islands up to a value of k  2.5 for typical