8.6 COMPARISON OF ROTOR BLADE DESIGNS 297not be ignored in a comparison of weights. Threebladed rotors with a low design tip speed ratio have wider and heavier rotor blades than twobladed rotors. In the case of twobladed rotors, the type of hub design plays a role. A teetering hub reduces blade bending moments under most operating conditions. The design stiffness of the rotor blades has considerable influence on the weight. The rotor blades of the Vestas turbine, for example, are extremely flexible and, therefore, exhibit a much better weight in the comparison. However, such a design requires a particularly careful analysis of system vibrations and pitch control characteristics (s. Chapt. 10 and 11).;The load spectrum for the rotor blades is also influenced by the way the wind turbinepower is controlled. The rotor blades of stallcontrolled rotors are subjected to high ex treme loads due to the lack of a capability of reducing the loading at extreme wind ve locities by feathering the rotor blades. On the other hand, the fatigue loads from wind turbulence can be worse in rotors with blade pitch control. For these reasons, no signifi cant difference is found in the weight of rotor blades for stallcontrolled rotors and those with blade pitch control. In addition, any comparison of weights is made more difficult due to the fact that fixedpitch rotors have aerodynamic spoilers which can increase the rotor blade weight by up to 20 .;Regardless of such influences on rotor blade mass, the selected material and the design have a major influence on the weight of the blades (Fig. 8.27). The statistical evalua tion of the rotor blade masses of manufactured wind turbines show firstly, that in each design concept, specific blade mass per square metre rotorswept area increases with increasing rotor diameter. The weight of the rotor blades increases not only in absolute terms but also in relative terms. The physical explanation is based on the fact that, for one, the volume, and with it the mass of the components, increase by the rotor radius to the power of three, and that the most important load parameters such as the bending moment from the aerodynamic forces increase approximately by the power of three and the moments resulting from the intrinsic weight, which dominate with large diameters, increase even by the power of four. On the other hand, the influence of wall thicknesses of the components becomes relatively more favourable with increasing size, i.e. the load carrying efficiency of the design improves. Empirically, the increase in blade mass with rotor diameter can be described with good approximation by the exponent 2.6. The in crease in specific blade mass per rotorswept area then contains the exponent 0.6;Strictly speaking, the exponent changes with rotor blade design. Heavy rotor bladesdiffer from lighter blades in their ratio of the loads resulting from their intrinsic weight and the aerodynamic forces so that the growth exponent becomes somewhat smaller.;If presentday rotor blades are classified according to their design, different categories emerge, each representing a weight class. However, the influence of the blade flange distorts the picture in some cases. For example, the blades seem disproportion ately light in turbines where the rotor blades only have bondedin connecting bolts. In addition, with rotor blades which are intended for stallcontrolled turbines, the addi tional weight of the spoilers or of the adjustable blade tips must be taken into considera tion.