To obtain an improved adaptation of the rotor speed to the wind speed, multispeed operation can be considered. Generally, two constant speeds will be chosen, the lower one of which will be used for partial load conditions, i.e. when wind speeds are lower. It is true that this method of speed stepping is no replacement for speed variability, as it does not improve the dynamic characteristics. But with two fixed speeds, the rotors energy yield can be increased somewhat, and the noise emission of the turbine under partial load operation can be reduced. There are various possibilities of implementing a steppedspeed rotor by electrical means, today mainly used in smaller turbines. But for the same reasons as mentioned in the previous chapter the multispeed generator sys tems have been displaced by the variable speed generator systems at large turbines.;Older Danish wind turbines are frequently equipped with two generators, of which the smaller one, with lower speed, is used during lowwind conditions. Apart from the more advantageous rotor speed, an improvement in the electrical efficiency under partial load, and a more favourable power factor, owing to the lower reactivepower requirement of the smaller generator, is achieved (Figs. 10.22 and 10.23). In most cases, the turbines have a threebladed rotor without pitch control. The second, larger generator is sized to the rated power to meet the requirements of the stallcontrolled rotor to provide enough generator torque to keep the generator on the grid (s. Chapt. 5.3.2).;Naturally, the greater expenditure, not only for the two generators and the more complex gearing but also with regard to control and operation, is a disadvantage. In the case of large, aerodynamically controlled turbines, the use of two generators can be justified only if difficult situations involving isolated grid operation have to be coped with. In turbines in the megawatt power range, neither the drop in efficiency under partial load nor the reactivepower requirement are sufficient reason to justify the expense of a dual generator system.;A basically simple solution is the use of a polechanging induction generator. These generators have two electrically isolated windings in the stator with different numbers of poles. Normally, 4 and 6 poles or 6 and 8 poles are paired. The speed ratio is corre spondingly 66.66  to 100  or 75  to 100 . The generators are much more expensive compared to standard generators, and their efficiency is slightly lower when operating at the lower speed (Fig. 10.24). The advantages of steppedspeed operation are, therefore, questionable, even with polechanging generators, but it might be useful in areas of poor wind conditions.