With respect to the calculation of the energy delivered by a wind turbine, attentionmust be paid to the fact that the logarithmic height formula and, even more so, Hell mans exponent, often supply inaccurate values for greater rotor heights (more than 80 m). As a rule, the mean wind speed is underestimated at greater hub heights. This is particularly important for the assessment of the wind speed on inland sites with higher values of the roughness length (Chapt. 13.5.3).;From the beginning, the unsteadiness of the wind has been a frequent argument against the utilisation of wind energy. Indeed, the available wind is less steady than, for exam ple, direct solar irradiation but this has the considerable disadvantage of disappearing virtually completely at night. The variation in wind flow is essentially determined by two factors the latitude of the site on the globe and the surrounding distribution of land and water.;In medium continental altitudes, the wind fluctuates greatly as the lowpressure regions move through. In these regions, the mean wind speed is higher in winter than in the summer months. The proximity of water and of land areas also has a considerable influence. For example, higher wind speeds can occur in summer in mountain passes or in river valleys close to the coast because the cool sea air flows into the warmer land regions due to thermal effects. A particularly spectacular example are the regions of the passes in the coastal mountains in California through to the lower lying desertlike hot land areas in California and Arizona (see Chapt. 2.5).;Having regard to the reliability of energy yield of a wind turbine, it is primarily thelongterm fluctuations of wind speed which are of interest as already mentioned. They are expressed as lines of diurnal variations, as seasonal variations and as fluctuations of the mean annual wind speed over relatively long periods.;A distinct, periodic change in wind speed over the diurnal period of 24 hours occurs when thermal effects play a role. This is very known at the sea shores, where the direc tion and the intensity of the wind changes from day to night. Thus, for example, higher wind speeds only occur around noon in the aforementioned regions in California. It takes until the noon hours before the land behind the coastal mountains is heated up. Then the cool air is drawn from the Pacific over the mountain passes. This wind contin ues until late at night.;This diurnal characteristic is of significance if the demand curve follows the powerconsumption or if it has the opposite characteristic. In California, the prevailing wind matches the characteristic of the power demand quite well which is dominated by room airconditioning in this area. Under these conditions, the utility companies offer tariffs which vary with the time of day and are advantageous at noon in this case. In Northern and Central Europe, on the other hand, there are no such distinct fluctuations in the diurnal wind speed (Fig. 13.17).