Power stations which can be operated and controlled in accordance with the demand curve of expected daily requirements. For this purpose, mediumsized power station units, with power outputs of around 300 MW and 3000 to 4000 fullload hours, are used. The preferred fuel is coal. Control periods are in the range of several hours.;Small power plants for compensating for shortterm variations in the grid load. These much smaller units are operated with gas, oil or water power. Control periods are very short. The power output of hydroelectric plants, for example, can be regulated within only a few minutes.;In order to meet the power demand, power station pools of this structure are used bythe utilities in accordance with the following strategy The operation for the following day is planned on the basis of statistical experience, trend analyses and by including the weather forecast. The goal is to use the various power station types in such a way that the resulting power generation costs are minimised, seen from an overall perspective.;16.4.1 Operational Strategies and Control Issues;Since the electrical energy cannot be stored in large volumes even in a large intercon nected grid, the same amount of energy must be fed into the grid at any time as is con sumed at the same time. This demand must be met within certain, defined control zones which do not need to comprise the entire grid.;The control rooms of the control zones initially attempt to achieve a balance betweenpower generation and consumption by matching the generated power of the power sta tions. To the extent to which is not possible, power is bought in from outside or delivered. For this purpose, the backup power bought the day before following the consumption forecast is ordered. Since this provision costs money, it is attempted to keep it as small as possible.;In real operation, however, there are always discrepancies between the forecast andthe actual load so that this instantaneous correction requires controlling power. The on line control has to respond to the instantaneous load variations in the grid. An increas ing load in the grid firstly extracts the required energy from the kinetic energy of rotation of the generators. Their speed starts to drop until the torque of the prime mover can be adjusted. As this can take up to one minute, the generators must be run with a so called spinning reserve so that voltage and frequency can be maintained during this period. Conversely, a certain nonloaded capacity must be available in order to be able to respond to a sudden drop in load. Spinning reserve and nonloaded capacity together constitute the socalled control capacity of the powerstation pool.