310 CHAPTER 9 MECHANICAL DRIVE TRAIN AND NACELLEturbines. However, it may be of some benefit to cast a glance at these experimental designs. It would not be the first time in the history of technology if these concepts were revived again later when different technical preconditions exist.;9.2.1 Generator in the Tower Base;The most logical solution with respect to reducing the tower head weight is to accom modate the drive train components in the tower base. However, having the gearbox and the generator located in the tower base means that the lowspeed rotor shaft, with its high torque, must be run through the entire tower. Weight and cost of such a shaft rule out this solution in practice.;It is much more realistic to run the faster and much lighter generator drive shaft to thetower base. Naturally, the gearbox must then remain at the top. But this solution also has numerous problems. Control of the shaft vibrations and the resultant bearing problems of a long, flexible shaft cause additional engineering problems.;The dynamic problems can at least be limited by splitting the gearbox into two transmission stages, thus providing a transmission shaft rotating at a medium speed. This type of drive train configuration was implemented in an experimental German wind turbine Voith WEC520 (see Fig. 5.21). There was only a bevelgear drive located on the tower head (there was no cased nacelle). A second gearbox was installed above the generator in the tower base (Fig. 9.3). This design permitted the tower head weight to be kept very low, paving the way for a stiff tower design with very small overall mass. The turbines total weight, with a rotor diameter of 52 m and a nominal power of 270 kW, amounted to a mere 34 tonnes.;The design of the WEC520 can be attributed to U. Htter. The turbine was built in;1982 by the manufacturing company Voith which had a good reputation in the construc tion of water turbines. It was tested from 1982 to about 1985 at the wind turbine test establishment of Sttten in the Swabian Alb but the operational experience proved to be unsatisfactory. Despite great care having been taken in the construction of the turbine, the long transmission shafts tended to oscillate. Moreover, the noise developed by the rotor, which was designed to run at a very high speed, was not acceptable. Since Voith eventually withdrew from wind energy technology, the turbine was dismantled again.;9.2.2 Vertically Positioned Generator in the Tower Head;A step in the same direction, but less radical, is to place the generator in a vertical posi tion in the stationary tower top (Fig. 9.4). Power transmission from the generator to the ground becomes easier and so does accessibility, possibly. There are, however, also some disadvantages. The complexity of the gearbox is increased. In addition, the rotor torque now has a component around the towers vertical axis. This has special significance when the rotor is braked rapidly and must be taken into consideration in the design of the azimuth drive and its stopping mechanism.