The outward appearance of a wind turbine is, to a considerable degree, determined by the external shape of the nacelle. The shaping of the rotor follows aerodynamic princi ples and is thus not open to discussions of aesthetics. Apart from the contour of the tower, the problem of style is concentrated on the shape of the nacelle.;Functional constraints concerning the shaping of the nacelle exist only to a limitedextent, and those constraints possibly existing should not be over emphasized. Aerody namic shaping to reduce the aerodynamic drag as in airplanes is not necessary, even if some nacelles look as if it were. The wind turbines feature a nacelle either in a boxtype shape or, in some cases, in a nacelle with a cylindrical cross section like an aircraft engine nacelle. In case of the boxtype shape the wind flow through the rotor is hardly disturbed by having to pass around the nacelle, which takes place in the aerodynami cally less sensitive hub area of the turbine. But the air flow around the nacelle needs to be considered in the context of positioning the anemometer. This local flow problem can be solved without great difficulty by choosing a suitable location for the instrument.;Regardless of the above described situation, however, the most recent developmentsat Enercon have shown that the design of the nacelle, if it is large enough and meets certain aerodynamic requirements, can be used for improving the flow in the root area of the rotor blades. The acceleration of the flow around the nacelle minimizes the sepa ration of the air flow in the inner part of the rotor blades. Together with the special shaping of the rotor blades, approaching the theoretical ideal, leads to a noticeable in crease in the performance of the rotor with the given flow around the nacelle (see Chapt. 5, Fig. 5.9).;Mastering the functional operation was the primary aim of design in the early years so that styling carried little weight as yet. As wind turbines became more widely installed and the associated discussion of their visual impact on the environment spread, this attitude changed. Moreover, the familiar maxim ugliness does not sell also applies to the marketing of wind turbines. Today, the manufacturers of wind turbines are keen on attracting wellknown stylists for shaping their nacelles. Figures 9.64 to 9.67 provide some examples. Of course, the comments given merely reflect the subjective impression of the author and do not lay claim to a general public approval.;All in all the outside shape of the nacelle is a challenge for the designer. In somecases, like the example of Enercon, it applies to improving the aerodynamic flow but in any case under aesthetic aspects. Arguments of cost should be countered decisively. The aesthetic design of largescale structures, which includes wind turbines, should be worth a few bucks. Apart from that, a good design or a bad design is in most cases not a question of money, but of thoughtlessness and, in a few cases, of bad taste. The shaping of the nacelle thus remains a task for the designer.;Part of the overall aesthetic image of the nacelle and of the wind turbine as a whole isa well thoughtout coat of paint. This considerably influences the visual impact of a turbine in the landscape. Whether the colour of the turbine is intended to visually hide the turbine or to emphasise it must be taken into consideration in each individual case. There are some arguments both for and against either way, but up to day the paint obvi ously tries to make the turbine as inconspicuous in the landscape as possible.