It would certainly be possible to enumerate more service areas worth mentioning. Inan industrial society which is increasingly referring to itself as a society based on ser vices, more and more services are demanded and offered also in the field of wind en ergy utilisation. It remains to be seen whether this trend of outsourcing ever more responsibility is pointing in the right direction. Acting and creating values that can be touched on ones own authority and responsibility may yet come to the force once again.;Services in the wider context also include the research activities at scientific institutes and universities. In the initial phase of wind energy technology, especially in the nine teeneighties when the large experimental turbines were being built, statefinanced re search and development work was the driving force for development. In the meantime, however, a change has taken place in this area with the increasing size of the wind tur bine industry and the significance of competition. Today, the focal point of theoretical knowledge is largely resting with the big manufacturing companies where it is also being carefully guarded. The research activities in wind energy technology taking place outside the industry are therefore concentrated today on the peripheral areas such as meteorology, fundamental aerodynamics, grid integration, etc. Such a development is not unusual in industry. For example, in aviation engineering, phases can be found in which the main basic theoretical knowledge relating to the development of aircraft had been worked out by governmental research institutions, and phases in which these theo retical basics were generated by the industry itself.;1. Hanselmann, G., Hau, E. SchwungradEnergiespeicher fr Straenfahrzeuge. VDI Nachrichten, No. 36 (1977) 2. Gilhaus, A., Hau, E. Stationre Schwungradspeicher fr industrielle Anwendungen. Com mission of the European Communities NQ 318781 EED (1978) 3. Fatajew, E.M., Rodschetwenski, W. Errungenschaften der sowjetischen Windtechnik. Ener gietechnik 3, 32 (1953) 4. Enercon Flywheel Enercon Windblatt (2004) 5. Winter, J. (ed.) Wasserstoff als Energietrger. Springer, Heidelberg (1987) 6. Lievense Windenergie en Waterkracht. Publikatie van de Voorlichtingsdienst Wetenschapsbeleid (1986) ISBN 9012 035414 7. Crotogino, F. DruckluftspeicherGasturbinenKraftwerke zum Ausgleich flukturierender WindenergieProduktion, Hannover University (June 2005) 8. Federal German Ministry for Economics (BMWI) EnergieDaten, Bonn (October 1994)