Whereas the aerodynamic loading can only be calculated with difficulty, loads caused by the dead weight of the components and by centrifugal and gyroscopic forces are relatively simple to calculate. The only difficulty is that, at the beginning of the design phase, the masses of the components are not known. As mass can only be calculated as a consequence of the complete load spectrum, including the dead weight, several iteration loops are unavoidable when dimensioning the structure. First assumptions as to the weight are best taken from empirical data, prepared sta tistically from existing turbines.;Loads resulting from the dead weight of the components must naturally be taken into consideration for all components of the turbine. In a wind turbine, the rotor blade weight is of special significance for the blades themselves, as well as for the downstream components.;The rotor blade weight generates alternating tensile and pressure forces along thelength of the blade and large alternating bending moments around the chordwise and flapwise axes in the blades over one rotor revolution. The significance of this gravitational loading increases from the blade tip to the root, i.e. in the opposite direction from the influence of the aerodynamic loads. This cyclic loading and par ticularly the cyclic bending moments around the blades chord axis, occur with 107 to 108 cycles during the life of a turbine, assuming a rotor speed of 20 to 50 rpm and a service life of 20 to 30 years. A number of 106 load cycles is reached after only approximately 1000 hours operating time. From this number of cycles onward, steel, for example, may only be stressed with its allowable fatigue stress.;Thus, together with wind turbulence, the influence of the gravitational forces becomes the dominant factor for the fatigue strength of the rotor blades. The larger the rotors, the greater these influences will be. As is the case with any other structure, as dimensions grow, it is ultimately the structures weight which becomes the main prob lem with respect to strength. For horizontalaxis rotors, the situation is aggravated by the fact that the dead weight causes alternating loads. Proponents of the verticalaxis concept thus rightly point out that for this particular reason, the verticalaxis rotor is more suitable for extreme dimensions, as the alternating loads caused by the dead weight of the rotor blades are avoided.;In the past, some designers of horizontalaxis rotors attempted to compensate forthese alternating bending moments by installing leadlag hinges at the rotor blade roots. These did not, however, prove successful in practice. For one, the compli cated mechanisms involved are too expensive and, for another, they are associated with additional problems of dynamics. If the rotor diameter is very large, this under taking would prove to be pointless, in any case. The better approach, or rather the only possible approach, is to reduce the natural weight of the rotor blades. A light weight type of construction is almost mandatory for very large rotor blades even if expensive materials such as carbon fibre have to be used.