Although the spectra by Davenport and Von Krmn reflect the conditions in the freeatmosphere with less accuracy, they are used more frequently because they are easier to handle (Fig. 13.23). The calculation of the fatigue strength of the structure is mainly based on the spectral representation of turbulence (see Chapt. 6.7.2).;The turbulence intensity changes with the mean wind speed, with the surface roughness, with the atmospheric stability and with the topographic features. The lowest values are measured over the open sea (5  and less) whereas the highest values (20  and more) occur over densely settled areas or forest areas. In the load assumptions for wind tur bines, values of between 16 and 18  are assumed depending on wind turbine classes (see Chapt. 6.3.1).;In the open air, the wind turbulence does not occur in the onedimensional form asidealised here. Instead, the wind fluctuations are distributed spatially in all directions. For this reason, meteorology has very complex models for the spatial multidimensional turbulence of wind 1. However, these multidimensional turbulence models are of no great significance in wind power technology.;Apart from the relatively very frequent fluctuations, considerable deviations fromthe mean wind speed within a range of a few up to some ten seconds and occurring occasionally can be observed. These peaks are called gusts. There is no generally rec ognized definition but it is largely accepted to classify the gusts by means of a gust factor. According to Frost, a gust is the increased wind velocity, averaged over a certain time, referred to the mean wind velocity. In wind energy technology it is normal prac tice also to call a sudden decrease in wind speed from the mean value a negative gust. In the load assumptions for wind turbines, idealised forms of gusts are assumed which are specified as a load with a defined probability of occurrence in the structural design (s.a. Chapt. 6.7.2). The relevant literature contains notes on the probability of occurrence, the period and the spatial extent of the gusts 9.;In this connection, the question also arises for the highest wind speeds occurring,which are gustlike in their extreme values and are often called gust of the century. The meteorological literature contains reports about the extreme values of the maximum wind velocities measured. According to these reports, extreme values of up to 47 ms were registered over a period of 20 to 30 years in the North German coastal region. This value is exceeded above the open sea and reaches maximum values of over 60 ms. In exposed geographic locations, including the Antarctic, values of 95 ms are said to have been observed.;Against this background, the extreme wind velocities have been specified for fourdifferent wind turbine classes and one specific class for offshore siting according to IEC in the Load Assumptions for Wind Turbines (see Chapt. 6.3). In extreme locations indi vidual assumptions have to be made.