Apart from the main input parameters , wind speed and power output, the optimisation of the control functions requires some more input data, for example   rotor rotational speed,  rotor blade pitch angle.  In the case of a more sophisticated control logic, for example a load dependant individ ual blade pitch control, further input data are necessary, such as  loads on the individual blades or eventually on the rotor shaft,  azimuth angle of the rotor. The safety system requires a large amount of data to be sampled by a variety of sensors for measuring excessive vibrations, temperatures in main components, oil level, hy draulic pressures, etc..;The electronic operation of the control systems is taken for granted today. If they are used at all, mechanically operating control systems are only used in small turbines al though here, too, electronics with its great variety of alternatives, will displace mechanical controllers.;The older type of construction is based on a largely decentralised arrangement of thecontrol systems for the individual functional areas. In most cases, the control algo rithms were represented as analogue values and hardwired in corresponding circuit boards. The advantage of the decentralised arrangement of individual analogue control lers is mainly that individual components tried in series production applications can be used, thus limiting the development effort required. However, there are also disadvan tages which must not be overlooked. Joining together many components greatly in creases the overall installed size and the complexity of the hardware. Moreover, the control characteristics can only be modified by modifying the hardware. Control and operational sequence management systems of this type were typical of the older, large experimental turbines in which the construction of the overall system was primarily based on existing components.;Today, control algorithms are digitally processed in processors (Fig. 11.5). Thisconsiderably reduces the demand for hardware and thus lowers the production costs. Changes in the control characteristics only require a change in the software, i.e. the computer programs and the hardware can be used universally. The only disadvantage is here the greater development effort required. This type of construction is state of the art in todays seriesproduced turbines.;The control system can be constructed on the basis of universally applicable storedprogram controls offered by the appropriate suppliers. The wind turbine manufactur erthen only needs to develop his own programs. Programming is today matched to the established PC programs and is comparatively simple. However, the large