One of the main criteria for the assessment of generator systems is the investment costs involved. However, the differences in cost of the different generator types are almost completely hidden within the overall cost of the electrical equipment in completed tur bines which largely explains the often contradictory statements about the costs of the electrical systems of the wind turbines. This makes it difficult to obtain a precise cost comparison for the various generator systems. In addition, it must be taken into consid eration that higher investment costs, for example for a variablespeed generator system with inverter, do not in any way lead to poor economics, i.e. higher power generation costs.;Different types of systems have differing maintenance requirements. The controllable variablespeed generators have slipring rotors and, therefore, require somewhat more maintenance than smaller induction generators with squirrelcage rotors. Furthermore, the switching elements of the static converters are components requiring special servic ing. On the whole, however, the maintenance work for the electrical system will be less significant than that for the mechanical components of the turbine and will therefore not represent a primary decision criterion.;However, this assessment should not lead one to conclude that the electrical and electronic equipment of a wind turbine is entirely without its problems from the point of view of maintenance and reliability. Past experience shows a different picture, at least for the time being. Electronic faults, mainly due to software bugs, account for a dispro portionately high number of failures (see Chapt. 18.9).;The majority of the smaller, older wind turbines is still equipped with generators which are coupled directly to the grid. In some cases, even today, cost considerations led to a preference for this concept in spite of considerable disadvantages for the aerodynamic operation of the rotor and the dynamic loads on the mechanical drive train components. It is only in recent years that with the progress in static converter technology, the indi rect grid coupling with its advantage of variable speed operation of the generator has allowed this solution to become a serious and economically viable alternative.;10.3.1 Synchronous Generator Directly Coupled to the Grid;From the point of view of dynamic behaviour on the grid, coupling a synchronous gen erator directly to a fixedfrequency grid represents the hardest case and is thus an extreme case among the technical possibilities (Fig. 10.17). The advantages of this solu tion are its simplicity and compatibility with todays standard generator technology for feeding the threephase grid. Moreover, the reactive power can be controlled very easily