The primary function of the control systems and operational sequence control of a wind turbine is to ensure that it will operate fully automatically. Any other approach requir ing some manual intervention during normal operation would be entirely unacceptable from an economic point of view. Moreover, economical considerations demand from the control systems that maximum efficiency be achieved at every point of operation. This does not happen by itself but requires intelligent control systems.;Apart from these requirements, there are other tasks which must be fulfilled by thecontrol systems and by the sequence controller. Among these, operational safety is of the highest priority. Technical faults and environmental hazards must be recognised and the safety mechanisms provided must be triggered. In addition, the control systems function is to contribute to minimising the structural loads on the wind turbine.;Not least, the control systems and the sequence controller are expected to be flexibleenough to adapt the performance of the turbine to varied operating conditions without extensive technical modifications. Such adaptation can be provided by modern digital control technology through a mere change in the software. Although there is no precise distinction between the terms control system and operational control in practice, they do characterise different tasks (Fig. 11.1).;The sequence controller receives extern al inputs according to the operating conditionsand, above all, the wind conditions and sometimes also the operators intentions. This information will determine the setpoint values for the control system. By this way the controller makes decisions concerning the mode of operation on the basis of logical de ductions. It is implemented in a programmable process computer which is part of the central computer of the wind turbine.;The control system takes care of the internal control processes of the turbine. In away, it represents the connecting link between the sequence controller and the me chanical and electrical components of the turbine. The control system must, therefore, be matched to the operating characteristics and structural strength limits of the turbine.;In wind turbines with bladepitch control, the control and supervisory systems control three functional systems rotor yawing, speed and power control and the opera tional sequence. Smaller wind turbines which frequently have no bladepitch control also have no active speed and power control. Instead, passive aerodynamic power