7.3 TORSIONAL VIBRATION O solved. The solutions of the quencies. Inserted into the ge in turn, yield the associated n;Table 7.8. Proportions of the co;socalled characteristic equation provide the natural eneral solution of the system of differential equations, th natural vibration frequencies. f a torsional vibration system is determined by three elaa of the rotating masses, e elastic shafts and connecting elements, ants.;a of the rotating masses, e elastic shafts and connecting elements, ants.t be determined from the design and material propertie nvolved. This is where the main difficulty arises. stiffness of the drive train itself, the chordwise bending also plays a role, as already mentioned. The antimetr on of the rotor blades is directly related to the torsional n equivalent torsional stiffness can be calculated if the f the blades in chordwise direction is known. onstants of the mechanical components are generally sm al damping and damping caused by bearing friction. He model without damping can be used (conservative syste ng elements are used for damping the vibrations in the d;t be determined from the design and material propertie nvolved. This is where the main difficulty arises. stiffness of the drive train itself, the chordwise bending also plays a role, as already mentioned. The antimetr on of the rotor blades is directly related to the torsional n equivalent torsional stiffness can be calculated if the f the blades in chordwise direction is known. onstants of the mechanical components are generally sm al damping and damping caused by bearing friction. He model without damping can be used (conservative syste ng elements are used for damping the vibrations in the dontalaxis wind turbine can be composed essentially of enerator rotor. A twomass model, therefore, provid , the rotor hub in connection with the blade roots repres hat a threemass model consisting of rotor blades, hub, g d the rest represent a suitable equivalent model by me natural frequencies and resonances can be recognised.;ontalaxis wind turbine can be composed essentially of enerator rotor. A twomass model, therefore, provid , the rotor hub in connection with the blade roots repres hat a threemass model consisting of rotor blades, hub, g d the rest represent a suitable equivalent model by me natural frequencies and resonances can be recognised.oments of these subsystems contributing to the overall i n of wind turbines with widely differing sizes and techn 7.8.;oments of these subsystems contributing to the overall i n of wind turbines with widely differing sizes and techn 7.8.omponents contributing to the overall inertia