The drive train of a turbine with its rotating masses and torsionally elastic components is a subsystem capable of vibrating. Vibrational modes can also be excited by external influences at both ends of the energy transmission chain. Apart from the stochastic fluctuations of the rotor torque caused by wind turbulence, the rotor also generates cy clic torque variations which represent an ideal source of excitation. At the other end there is the electrical generator with its connection to the grid or to a particular load. In the discussion of the characteristic properties of electrical generators, it has been pointed out that, in particular, the synchronous generator coupled directly to the grid tends to vibrate. However, the problem also occurs in other types of generators.;Against this background, it is absolutely mandatory to deal with the phenomenon ofdrive train vibrations in wind turbines. The most important natural frequencies and modes of vibration must be analysed and tuned to the possible exciting frequencies in such a way so as to avoid resonances. Vibrational resonances in the drive train can exert a considerable influence on the dynamic load of the components, on the quality of the power output and even on the mechanical noise.;The term electricalmechanical drive train usually includes the elements of the energy transmission chain, without the rotor blades. For dynamic considerations, however, the rotor blades must be included as their share in the rotating masses is by far the larg est and, in addition, they have a decisive part in determining the dynamic behaviour due to their bending behaviour in the chordwise direction.;The seriesconnected components of the drive train such as rotor hub, rotor shaft,gearbox, highspeed shaft, brake and clutches have such diverging dimensions, mass distributions and material properties, that an accurate analysis of vibrations can only be carried out to a limited extent. The most important parameters can, nevertheless, be calculated by means of comparatively simple equivalent mechanical models.;The mathematical simulation of the vibrational behaviour of rotating multimass or multibody systems is widely used in the field of engineering, so that only the basic ap proaches will be called to mind here 3, 4. Apart from these numerical simulation techniques an analytical approach can be used. Firstly, the most important natural fre quencies and modes of inherent vibrations (modal analysis) are calculated with the aid of an equivalent mathematical vibration model. In a second step, the reactions of the drive train to excitations are examined and critical resonances found.;In a method developed by Lagrange, the kinetic and potential energies of the multimass system consisting of torsional masses and torsionallyelastic shaft elements are balanced and the equations of motion are derived by differentiation with respect to time. To solve these equations, all mechanical parameters are reduced to a uniform rota tional speed. The multimass system with different rotational speeds becomes an equivalent system with a uniform speed, taking into consideration the requirement that the total energy be conserved. The vibration equation for this equivalent system can be