Calculating the increase in wind velocity with height for heights above 100 m is associated with some uncertainties (see Chapt. 13). In the meantime, however, experience is available from the operation of thousands of inland wind turbines at different rotor hub heights. Accordingly, an average increase in energy yield of about 0.7 per meter altitude can be expected in the range from 100 to 150 m in the North German interior. The value fluctuated between 0.5 to 1 depending on topographic conditions. This statistically proven experience can be used for calculating the amortisation period of a higher tower but one should always take into consideration an individual case for the reasons mentioned. The result will become clear from the following example;A large turbine with a rotor diameter of 90 m and a power rating of 2.5 MW generates about 5 million kWh per year at a height of 100 m at a typical mean inland wind velocity of 6.5 ms, taking into consideration the usual loss deductions from the calcu lated gross value. The costs for a 100m high lattice or concrete tower are about US 550,000. A tower with a height of 140 m will cost about US 1.1 million. The differ ence in cost is thus US 550,000. Since the increased costs for the foundation and the assembly also have to be taken into account, this value is multiplied by a factor of 1.4 so that additional investments of US 770,000 have to be financed. With an assumed amortisation period of five years, the principal repayments calculated as annuity are annually 23.1  of the investment sum at an interest rate of 5 , corresponding to an amount of about US 180,000 per year.;According to the rule of thumb of 0.7  per meter height, the increased energy yielddue to the increase in rotor hub height from 100 m to 140 m is 28 . Based on an elec tricity price rate of 0.09 USkWh, an additional income of US 126,000 is achieved annually, not quite enough for compensating for the principal repayments of US 180,000. The amortisation period for the higher tower is thus about six years which is a completely appropriate period for commercial investments.;The result of this rough calculation also shows that there is no actual economic optimum for the tower height. If a longer amortisation period is allowed for the additional costs for the higher tower, an even higher tower height also works out. In practice, other aspects are naturally also determining for the choice of tower height. Above a certain height, the assembly and transportation problems become more and more difficult to solve also for concrete and lattice towers. In many regions, height restrictions apply to wind turbines, for example to a total height of 150 m. With a 90 m rotor, this means a maximum permissible tower height of 105 m.;The foundation of the tower is determined by the size of the wind turbine and by local ground conditions. With respect to the loading, it is primarily, the highest thrust loads of the rotor acting on the wind turbine which must be considered.;The first load case which must be checked is that involving the highest loads duringoperation (Fig 12.32). In operation, the maximum tilting moment for the foundation is determined by rotor thrust. In turbines with blade pitch control, rotor thrust reaches its peak at the rated power, whereas in stallcontrolled turbines it continues to increase even after the rated power has been reached (Chapt. 5.3.1).