Numerous governmental and private organisations were involved in the research programmes, the development tasks and the evaluation of the test results. A special role was played by the International Energy Agency (IEA) which organized an international exchange of tests results in a working group created especially for this purpose.;The large firstgeneration prototypes were intensively tested in the first years of their existence and were then operated for another ten years, interrupted by relatively long periods of rest. If one wants to measure their success from the number of operating hours, the most successful turbines reached numbers of a few thousand operating hours whereas the least successful ones only attained a few hundred hours 27. Compared with the po litically motivated expectations, this was disappointing. Looking more closely at the whole picture, however, one arrives at a quite different assessment. This first generation of large experimental turbines largely laid the technological foundations for the modern wind en ergy technology and, above all, provided the necessary documentation, available to a wider public.;For the first time, a wide scientific technical foundation was created by governmentalresearch establishments and industry and the electrical utilities, on the basis of which the personal and factual preconditions could be established to bring wind energy technology to its present day level. This assessment in no way ignores the personal contributions of many individual pioneers who, with much commitment, have already designed and successfully constructed wind turbine systems long before this but the creation of an enduring and successful wind energy technology required a diversified foundation based on scientific and technical principles. This development crystallised around the large experimental turbines of the nineteeneighties which, in serving this task, have consumed themselves, which can also be said of numerous other examples in technology.;Fig. 2.36. HWP55, (rotor diameter 55 m, 1000 kW), HOWDEN (United Kingdom), 1989 Fig. 2.37. NEWECS45, (rotor diameter 45 m, 1000 kW), STORK (Holland), 1985