others. The series production of these turbines was accelerated by the construction of the American wind farms so that at the end of the nineteeneighties, a smallscale, wind turbine industry existed in Denmark. It is noteworthy that the American manufacturers which, natu rally, also participated in the construction of the wind farms in the US, could not compete. In comparison with the Danish products, their turbines were too underdeveloped and the organ isational structure of the companies was too improvisational in most cases.;The second great impulse was set by the German Einspeisegesetz in 1990. This lawmarks the beginning of the developing wind energy boom in Germany and forms the basis on which a number of successful wind turbine manufacturers were able to evolve in Germany. A few years later, other European markets, and thus also other manufactur ers, also joined in.;The global development of wind energy utilization and the increasing size of thewind turbines are presenting new challenges to the wind turbine industry. This also includes the perspectives arising for offshore wind energy utilisation. In view of these prospects, the large industrial concerns are also turning again towards the product wind turbine. The takeover of small manufacturers often provides a gateway into the market, regarded as lucrative by now (e.g. General ElectricTacke or SiemensBonus).;70 percent of their production. This also meant that a hope was fulfilled in which no body had dared to believe even ten years ago. Wind turbines had become an export hit for German industry, even more so as German subcontractors profit to a high degree also from the turbines made in other countries. The percentage of the value of the sub contracted supplies originating in Germany is about 50  in almost all massproduced wind turbines.;Asia. Here too, the familiar experience that industry follows the markets applies. In countries such as India and China, new wind turbine manufacturers are appearing which produce for their own market but are also thrusting onto the export markets. Meanwhile four Chinese companies are among the ten leading manufacturers of wind turbines (Fig. 16.20).;The wind turbine manufacturers are pursuing different strategies in development andproduction. Vestas and Enercon are developing and producing all the essential compo nents inhouse or in subsidiaries. This applies especially to the rotor blades and the control systems. This approach is apparently considered to be necessary in order to be able to determine the speed of technical advance and to assume a leading position. In addition, the inhouse development of the key components offers a better opportunity for optimising the components one hundred percent for the requirements of the overall system. Although this means higher development costs, the components will be more costefficient in production. These companies are thus foregoing the opportunity of purchasing subcontracted massproduced components without themselves having to expend high development costs. In contrast, this opportunity is of importance for the smaller manufacturers and is in many cases the prerequisite for being able to produce wind turbines at all. However, they are dependent on progress on the subcontractors side with regard to the development of new types. This applies especially to new rotor