10.3.2 Induction Generator Directly Coupled to the Grid;Induction generators coupled directly to the grid have been successfully used in wind turbines for decades (Fig. 10.18). Particularly in combination with the stallcontrolled threebladed wind rotors of Danish turbines, they initially represented by far the most commonly used electrical concept. The squirrelcage rotors used in smaller systems are unsurpassed with respect to cost and low maintenance and do not require a complicated blade pitch control arrangement.;Small induction generators have comparatively high nominal slip values which provide sufficient compliance to the grid. They can, therefore, be synchronised to the grid without field excitation and without elaborate synchronisation measures in the range of its synchronous speed.;In larger induction generators without special devices, however, the inrush currentis in most cases unwanted. More recent turbines, therefore, have soft grid coupling. After the generator has reached synchronous speed, it is initially connected to the grid via a thyristor controller with phaseangle control. This limits the inrush current to about 1.5times the nominal current. After 1 to 2 seconds, the thyristor controller is bypassed by the line contactor. However, the phaseangle control produces a brief but relatively strong 5thorder harmonic.;The reactive power requirement of an induction generator depends on its power output. The reactive current increases with output, starting from a magnetising current needed for idling. Thus, various stages are required for more or less complete reactive power compensation depending on the requirements. One set of permanently connected capacitors can only provide static compensation for one operating point. Discrepancies must be made up from the grid or the compensation has to be provided incrementally by means of a set of switchable capacitors.;If the reactivepower consumption is to be kept as low as possible, further improvements can be achieved by special idling compensation. In some cases (isolated opera tion) a rotating phase shifter, a synchronous machine with voltage or reactivepower control, may be installed.;In large wind turbines in the megawatt power range, however, the use of directly gridconnected induction generators is not undisputed. Large induction generators are de signed with a small nominal slip in favour of high efficiency. With respect to its grid coupled operation, the behaviour of such a generator does not differ much from that of a synchronous model. Wind fluctuations are passed on to the grid almost as unsmoothed