The use of wind turbines can be considered from various points of view The use of the energy generated, the organisational integration into the public energy supply infrastruc ture, the operational concepts and the geographic location all characterise the range of possible applications. The size of the turbines takes up a significant place in these con siderations since the fields of application available for small wind turbines with a power of a few kilowatts differ fundamentally from those for large turbines in the megawatt power range.;In comparison with the past, the pressure for using the wind energy directly on sitewhere it is needed has largely gone nowadays. Apart from a few special cases, wind turbines are now used primarily for the generation of electrical energy. Generating elec trical energy means almost unlimited possibilities for the use of the energy captured from the wind. Electrical energy can be transported over long distances and can be used for any purpose. The technical conditions of energy generation are almost completely disconnected from those of energy consumption. This aspect is of the greatest impor tance for an energy generation system dependent on the environment. The design and location of the wind turbine can be adapted optimally to the wind resource and need not be burdened by additional compromises in order to be matched to the characteristics and the final location of the point of energy consumption.;The main question arising when considering applications is the organisational integration of wind energy into the existing energysupply infrastructure. Decisive differ ences and alternatives are to be found here. The range extends from supplying energy to a particular piece of equipment in isolated operation, for example a water pump, or the frequently expressed desire of having a power supply which is largely independent of the public supply, to the efforts of public utility companies to use large wind turbines in their interconnected power station system. These highly diverging aspirations and goals are not contradictory. Wind energy can be utilised in many ways and these should not be considered as being mutually exclusive, but as providing alternative possibilities.