184 CHAPTER 6 LOADS AND STRUCTURAL STRESSESmust also be taken into consideration when designing for fatigue strength. Moreover, they can increase loads up to the point of fracture. The most serious problems as far as loading is concerned are presented by the stochastic fluctuations of the wind. There is a number of different turbulence models which can be traced back to two fundamental approaches (see Chapt. 13).;The continuous nature of the wind speed fluctuations is reproduced best by means of a statistical approach in the form of a turbulence spectrum. The spectral representation of the wind is also used in general meteorology where the most varied turbulence spectra have been developed. Common turbulence spectra have been produced by Davenport, Kaimal or von Karman and can be found in the relevant literature (see Chapt. 13.3.4).;In the load calculations it is generally assumed that the turbulence is a onedimensional fluctuation of wind speed in the longitudinal direction. In reality, wind speed fluctuations naturally also have lateral components. Mathematical treatment of a twodimensional turbulence model is very difficult, however, and generally not necessary when dealing with wind turbines. More important, as far as loading on the wind rotor is concerned, is the spatial distribution of longitudinal turbulence over the rotorswept area.;While the spectral model of turbulence is of a statistical nature, a deterministic ap proach can also be used. The basic idea is to define discrete idealised gust shapes, represented by increasing and decreasing wind speed over time. These gusts are then assumed to be discrete isolated events for the calculation of loads. It is obvious that in the process, the continuous nature of the turbulence is lost. The response of the structure shows only the reaction to an isolated gust, without taking into considera tion the situation before and immediately after the event. For this reason, the gust model is unsuitable for calculating fatigue strength. Gust models were used only in the initial phase of wind energy technology, in which, provided with a probability of occurrence, a load spectrum was assembled from various forms of gusts and used as input for the fatigue calculation. Presentday calculation methods are based without exception on the spectral model of turbulence;The significance of these discrete gusts for load calculation primarily lies in the determination of extreme loads. For this purpose, the characteristic properties of the gusts must be known. Meteorological research has not given much attention to this special problem so far, so that no adequate data on gust factors, rise and fall times, spatial extent and similar parameters are available. Attempts to compile data usable for wind energy technology today were carried out, in particular, by Frost 8. From such data, idealised gust shapes have been derived for calculating loads on wind turbines (Fig. 6.14).;Frost specified gust factors as a function of gust duration (Fig. 6.15). They also depend on the level of the mean wind speed. The higher this is, the smaller are the gust