According to the presentations of the relevant interest groups, these regions should remain free of wind turbines and, moreover, large safety distances maintained, if possible. The areas remaining are considered acceptable for the siting of wind turbines and on this basis, the wind energy potential is then calculated, including the techni cally required minimum clearances between the turbines. It is amazing that even in densely populated areas, there is still considerable remaining potential, but this is natu rally only a fraction of the technically usable potential. In other words all existing claims on land utilization are considered permanent and immutable. The utilization of wind energy is relegated to what niches remain.;What if these standards had also been applied to the extension of traffic routes, especially road construction, or to the exploitation of conventional primary fuels? Coal min ing did not only spoil entire landscapes but, in the case of opencut brown coal mining, completely destroyed them. The resettlement of entire villages is only one of the more humane sideeffects in this context. The quality of life of the people living in the mining districts has been quite poor for more than a century, a fact which has been and still is tolerated and accepted by society as the unfortunate but necessary tribute to be paid for a technical civilisation.;Whosoever demands even the relocation of a microwave radio link for the benefit ofwind energy utilisation is regarded as a starryeyed dreamer. This illustrates the status which society is willing to grant an ecologically oriented energy supply system. Verbal declarations cannot obscure the fact that emissionfree and sustainable energy generation occupies the last place on the list of priorities. It is only when all other fields of interest remain untouched, from the optimal position of microwave radio links to the preservation of a natural landscape, that society as represented by the vested interests is prepared to permit the installation of wind turbines.;The decision about how much windenergy potential is available is reached virtuallywithout considering other aspects, only these. The natural preconditions and the techni cal and economical feasibility do not impose any real limits on the development of windenergy utilisation. Neither do uneconomically high costs present an obstacle to windenergy utilisation. It is important to keep these facts in mind. The statement by H. Scheer on the utilisation of solar energy can be applied equally to wind energy 12 The question, frequently asked, of how high a percentage of the supply of energy could be contributed by solar energy utilisation really does not make sense as the potential of solar energy is more than enough for the energy requirements of humankind, there is also no limit to the usable proportion of solar energy. The magnitude of the proportion of solarenergy is a question of input alone the more political initiatives and economic investments there are, the higher the proportion.;What positive conclusions can then be drawn from this situation? It would certainly bewrong to demand a hard approach to utilising the wind energy potential. But it should not be lost from sight as an option for cases of emergency. If crises develop due to the continuation of todays energy politics, the only solution in the long run will be to push ahead with the utilisation of wind energy in this way. Wind energy is the only