Apart from the obligatory check by the authorities, the sections of the licensing proce dure provide for a public exposition and a date for a public discussion, providing an opportunity for third parties to voice any objections to the granting of a permit. It goes almost without saying that the details and the handling of the process differ with each country.;At the same time as planning for the licensing, the question of the connection to the grid must also be discussed with the grid operator. Even though the power system operators have a duty to connect, the problems of technical feasibility and distribution of costs, if grid reinforcement measures are required, have not yet been solved in every individ ual case. Large wind farm projects require separate transformer substations and apart from a building permit, this also requires financing. In many cases, these costs cannot be borne by one wind farm project alone, requiring joint planning with neighbouring projects.;Private operators or operating companies will generally finance the projects largelywith bank credits and little capital of their own. The optimum structuring of the financ ing with a view to the flow of ready capital to be expected from the operation of the wind farm and possibly also taking into consideration tax aspects for the investors is a separate subject (s. Chapt. 20). Solving this problem represents a significant part of the project development. If the means are not available, either from credits or from equity capital, it will not be possible to sign a binding delivery contract for the wind turbines without which, in turn, the manufacturers cannot commit themselves to a delivery date. The last and decisive prerequisite not only for the scheduling but for the overall project implementation is, therefore, an established financing model.;In most cases, the larger wind farm projects are implemented and operated by compa nies created especially for this purpose (s.a. Chapt. 20.1). The company must be estab lished in accordance with legal regulations. In general, the agreements required for the execution of the construction work and the later operation are also formulated at the same time. In Germany, there are now numerous attorneys who have specialized in this field.