The mean value of the specific exworks price per square meter rotorswept area increases from about 350 to 600 USm for the very large turbines (Fig. 19.16). As ex plained in Chapter 19.1, the reference to the rotorswept area is more informative per se, even if less illustrative, and cannot be compared directly with the specific costs of other, competing energy generating systems.;The total investment costs required for a turnkey system, i.e. for an operable system or a wind farm with all associated structures and technical facilities, form the basis for de termining its economic viability. In technical terms, the investment costs for installing an operable, turnkey wind turbine or a wind farm are called installed costs. The realisation of a project frequently spans a period of several years from the first idea to the day of starting operation and, therefore, firstly entails considerable planning costs which are frequently underestimated at first glance.;19.3.1 Acquisition of the Project Rights;The development of wind parks has its origin almost always in an initiative of local residents. These persons, who are often laypeople in the technical sense, have knowl edge of the land and the people and conduct the first talks with the property owners and the responsible licensing authorities at a local level. They also attempt to enter into a contract with the owner of the land and initiate the licensing process. In doing so, they are often supported by the local representatives of the large wind turbine manufacturers and thus by the potential suppliers.;Since the initiators rarely have at their disposition the necessary means for decisivelyadvancing the implementation of larger projects, they will turn to supraregionally ac tive project developers at a certain point in time. From the point of view of the latter, the project development thus begins with the purchase of the project rights from these local initiators. The project rights include the land lease contracts with the land owners for erecting the wind turbines and more or less advanced preplanning for the design of the wind park.;Naturally, the costs for purchasing the project rights differ depending on the stagereached. In Germany and the adjoining European countries, they ranged in recent years between 100 and 200 US per megawatt.;19.3.2 Technical Planning and Application for the Building Permission;The engineering issues of a wind turbine project, once a site has been found, basically comprise the selection of a suitable turbine, constructing the foundation and access roads and connecting the wind turbines to the grid. Planning this work is not too complex. However, the planning work necessary for wind turbine projects today is determined less by technical planning but rather by the increasingly more complicated permission procedures. Although more and more communities are allocating socalled