Apart from the prevailing designs, some special tower designs can be found in wind turbines. Some Danish wind turbines have towers with a tripod design. In some rare cases, slender lattice or concrete towers are also fitted with guys. Altogether, however, constructions such as these do no longer play an important role. The majority of todays turbines have freestanding lattice, concrete or tubularsteel towers.;The dimensioning of a tower is determined by a number of strength and stiffness re quirements. Factors to be considered are the breaking strength required for surviving extreme wind speeds, the fatigue strength required for 20 or 30 years of operation and the stiffness with respect to the vibrational behaviour. In some cases, the buckling of the walls also becomes a dimensioning criterion.;The static load is determined by the towerhead weight, the towers own weight, and the aerodynamic rotor thrust. In turbines with blade pitch control, rotor thrust is generally at its highest level when the rotor is running at its rated speed whereas it is comparatively low in standstill due to the possibility of rotating the rotor blades into running position. The maximum bending moment at the tower is obtained with rotors without blade pitch control (stallcontrolled turbines) or when the worst rotor blade position is demanded for a particular load case. In the standard case, the question of fracture load will be reduced to that of the bending moment acting on the tower base.;The dynamic loading caused by the rotor thrust during operation has a definite impact on the fatigue life of slender towers. Additional loads caused by the vibrational behav iour in cases of resonance must also be taken into consideration (Chapt. 11.4.2). Hence a purely static stress analysis, commonly required by the building authorities for con ventional buildings, is not appropriate for all tower designs of a wind turbine.;The stiffness requirement is derived from the chosen vibrational concept of the turbine as a whole (Chapt. 11.4.1). It is generally focused on the requirement for a particular first natural bending frequency, even though other natural frequencies, and particularly the natural torsion frequency, must be checked with regard to the dynamics of the yaw system of the turbine. The position of the first natural bending frequency with respect to the frequency of the rotational rotor speed is characteristic of the stiffness of the tower. The tower design is called a stiff or a soft design in accordance with this criterion (s. Chapt. 11.1).