Putnam proposed to the S. Morgan Smith Company a preproduction model with arotor diameter of 200 feet (60.69 m) producing a power output of 1500 kW. The techni cal concept largely corresponded to that of the experimental turbine, but the design had been improved in many details, above all from the point of view of reducing the manu facturing costs. Based on a series of 6 to 10 wind turbines, economic calculations yielded specific investment costs of 190 DollarskW (1945). The utility company, in contrast, calculated with economically affordable specific costs of 125 DollarskW, based on the then electricitygeneration costs of 0.6 CentskWh and, as a result, no fur ther wind turbines were manufactured. In 1945, therefore, the SmithPutnam wind tur bine was off the mark by a factor of 1.5 with respect to economic efficiency.;After World War II, the prices of the primary fuels coal and oil dropped again and a period of extremely cheap oil imports began. The availability of fuels for the generation of electricity was no problem at all. The subject of environmental protection had not yet been thought of and if so, not in connection with the production of electricity. Neverthe less, attempts at generating electrical power by means of wind turbines continued in the fifties in some places, after the shortages of the first postwar years had been mostly overcome.;Orkney Islands in 1950 for the North of Scotland Hydroelectric Board (Fig. 2.11). However, the threebladed wind turbine with a rotor diameter of 15 m and a rated power of 100 kW was not a success and its interconnected operation with the diesel power station on the Orkney Islands lasted only a few months. The main technical reason for the failure was probably the complex rotor design, with blades connected to the shaft via flapping hinges and drag hinges.;At about the same time the Enfield Cable Company also built a 100kW wind turbinein England, based on the plans of the French engineer Andreau (Fig. 2.12). The An dreauEnfield wind turbine is based on a technical concept which has maintained its uniqueness to this day 16. Instead of the usual mechanical gearbox for connecting the rotor directly to the generator, Andreau thought up a pneumatic power transmission system. Air, which was sucked in at the base of the hollow tower, flowed through the tower and hollow rotor blades, and being submitted to centrifugal forces, left the rotor blades at the blade tips. This caused a fastmoving air stream in the tower, which drove the generator via an air turbine in the tower.;However, although this method avoided the problematic fixedspeed connection ofthe rotor to the generator, it was not convincing in its overall efficiency which, at about 20 , was uneconomically low when measured against the construction costs. The wind turbine was first set up in St. Albans (Hertfordshire) in 1951, but was dismantled again due to the unfavourable site. In 1957, it was set up again for a short period of time in Grand Vent (Algeria), but obviously no detailed testing was carried out. At that time the public interest in wind energy utilization disappeared and the promoters could not rise more funds for their experiments.