15.4 INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO AND TELEVISION SIGNALS 627the other hand, to the topography of the individual sites. As for the technical concept, it became apparent that it is mainly the design of the rotor blades which is of significance. Rotor blades totally or partly consisting of steel, as in the case of the MOD1, caused the highest interference. Rotor blades made of glassfibre composite material or wood proved to be far less disturbing. During standstill, the rotors position has a perceptible influence, at least in twobladed machines.;  reflective efficiency of the rotor blades (metal blades 0.7 glass fibre blades 0.3)   wavelength of the television signal C  constant of the geometric setup of TV transmitter, receiver and wind turbine (c  2, if wind turbine and receiver are on line of sight with the TV transmitter c  2 to 5, if wind turbine is below the radio horizon of the TV transmitter) m0  intensity index of the interference (0.15);Taking the MOD2 turbine with its steel rotor blades as an example, the formulayields a zone of interference of 2 to 3 kilometres. This formula results in an estimation which is too rough for a specific situation due to its numerous simplifications but it has the benefit of at least identifying the main influencing parameters.;WTS3 wind turbine in Maglarp. Even though its rotor blades entirely consist of glass fibre composite material, distinct interference effects were nevertheless observed. The aluminium webs integrated into the blade structure as a protection against lightning stroke obviously played a perceptible part in this. In the village of Skare, two kilometres away from the wind turbine and directly on the extended line connecting transmitter and wind turbine, interference was observed in some houses. However, television reception was seriously impaired only when the wind turbine was in operation. An auxiliary transmitter with a power of two watts, mounted on the anemometer mast at some dis tance from the wind turbine, corrected the problem for those television viewers.;Generally, the impact on television reception due to wind turbines is not too much ofa problem. Where it occurs, the problem can be solved by relatively simple technical equipment. Experience in the US has shown that in a number of cases, realignment of the existing antennas was enough to correct the problem. Where this was not satisfac tory, a small relay transmitter was installed, or the relatively few television viewers affected were supplied via cable. Taking into consideration the progress in digital video broadcasting and the increasing transmission of television signals by cable or via direct reception from geostationary satellites, this problem will disappear in the long run in any case.