848 CHAPTER 20 WIND TURBINE ECONOMICSpartner who otherwise is personally fully liable can be replaced by a company with lim ited liability. In the limited partnership, capital can be obtained to a greater extent through any number of limited partners who are only liable with their capital invested. In addi tion, the limited partners can use the tax losses of the company. Numerous wind farms are operated by such a combined limited company  limited partnership. This legal form is of significance with respect to the economic viability of wind energy utilisation since the nominal return on ones own capital can be comparatively low. The investors (limited partners) will achieve a higher effective return after tax due to tax advantages. Their own capital thus becomes cheaper for project financing. This legal form of wind park financing was of great importance particularly in Germany. In other countries, limited partnerships are relatively unknown, depending on the tax laws in force. Companies, for example in the form of the limited company  limited partnership, are frequently called taxshelter companies somewhat condescendingly. However, critics are obviously not aware of the fact that all reputable companies will make use of their tax advantages as extensively as possible. The only difference between them and the tax shelter compa nies is that these publish their tax advantages and dividend payments for the investors in brochures, as prescribed by law and are, therefore, regarded as objectionable. Whether or not these tax laws are just is quite a different issue and belongs exclusively into the realm of politics. At any rate, any individual calculation of economic viability which does not take into account the tax effects is unrealistic from the point of view of a professional operator.;The joint stock company, typically the legal form of large companies, does not yet play an important role in wind energy utilisation. It is not possible to generate any personal tax advantages for the shareholders in a joint stock company. However, the basis for raising capital by issuing shares is very large. Stock companies are subject to strict su pervision under the provisions of the Shares Law and must regularly publish their busi ness report. It is conceivable that future largescale projects such as offshore wind parks will be financed and operated on this basis. An accurate analysis of the economics in volved must take into consideration the characteristics of these legal forms, including the tax effects. These are quite different in the various countries so that the preferred forms of companies are also different in the individual countries for this reason, too.;How much does wind power cost? Any discussion about the economics of wind turbines will ultimately return to this simple point. In a concrete case, however, the problem of economics is often not a direct question about the costs of energy generation. Instead, given proceeds from the sale of electricity will include the repayment period for the capital used. This situation exists for almost all generating plants feeding their energy into the grid since calculations are based here on legal regulations or electricity supply contracts with predetermined infeed tariffs.