The background noise generated by the wind at increasing wind speeds when blowing around obstacles (for example buildings, trees, grass etc.) increases by about 2.5 dB(A) per one ms wind speed. If measurements of the background noise level are not available, the background sound pressure level can be estimated by using the following formula 6;  27.7   2.5  where  LA  sound pressure level (dB(A))   wind speed (ms) Experience has shown that the noise emission of a wind turbine increases by only about 1 dB(A) per ms wind speed. According to that it follows that, from a certain wind speed on, the noise of the wind turbine will be masked by the background noise. If the background sound level exceeds the calculated noise level of a wind turbine by about 6 dB(A), the latter will no longer contribute to any perceptible increase in the sound pres sure level at the location of immission 6.;A noise source is characterised by its sound power level. This parameter contains information about the intensity and thus about the sound propagation potential of a sound source. According to definition, measurements would have to be obtained over a spheri cal surface around the source of the noise. In practice, several methods are normally used. The IEC has elaborated a standard for wind turbines 7. According to this, the sound pressure levels are measured at five fixed measuring points in a particular geo metrical arrangement on an acoustically inert plate, and from these measurements the sound power level (LW) is determined by using the following formula;    10 log4    6 where LA  measured sound pressure level (dB(A)) Ri  distance from the point of measurement to the centre of the rotor (m) The propagation of sound can be determined by semiempirical mathematical methods on the basis of the sound power level of the noise source, which allows the sound pres sure level to be calculated at a given location of noise immission. Information on how to calculate sound propagation is given in VDI Standard 2714 Sound Propagation in the Open 8.  The propagation of sound is determined by a whole series of factors