814 CHAPTER 19 WIND TURBINE COSTSdesigns, in some cases with integrated components (Chapt. 8.6). The progress achieved especially in this sector may be even more important than that of the rotor blades. The weightoptimised design of the mechanical drive train and of the loadbearing nacelle structures has been considerably improved in comparison with the wind turbines of earlier years. Apart from reducing the component weights, the further technical devel opment will also be aimed at constructional simplifications. Gearless drive trains with the electric generator driven directly by the rotor are already competing with conven tional concepts and could become the more costeffective solution in the future. Another weightsaving and costreducing measure is the increased use of cast components. One the other hand, the cost of raw material, particularly steel, has been rising in recent years and the general expectation is that this trend will continue.;Looked at overall, advancing the conceptual design and componentspecific development of wind turbines still offers a variety of starting points for improvement with regard to lowering production costs. The larger the wind turbine, the greater the poten tial which can be exploited. However, the development costs and time involved should not be underestimated. Evolutionary development moves in small steps and only be comes effective when every detail is included.;19.2.8 Alternative Technical Concepts and Achievable Costs;One hope of utilising wind energy more efficiently is based on technical concepts and systems other than those currently represented by conventional horizontalaxis wind turbines with two or three rotor blades. Naturally, it is not possible to predict what inno vations the future will bring. Producing technological prophecies is a thankless business also in the field of windenergy technology. But even without anticipating coming events, there are a number of alternative technical concepts which could be developed to maturity in the foreseeable future. The question is, therefore Can a qualitative change in the cost level be expected from these technical alternatives to the current horizontal axis wind turbines?;The manufacturing costs of the rotor are clearly determined by the number of rotor blades. Roughly speaking, the share of one rotor blade in the total costs of a wind tur bine amounts to roughly 5 to 6 . It is, therefore, an obvious thought to manage with the fewest number of rotor blades as possible. Unfortunately, however, the rotor power coefficient drops with a decreasing number of blades (Chapt. 5.4.1). The cost advantage achieved by omitting a rotor blade is thus virtually cancelled out. On the other hand, turbines with twobladed rotors can be built with lower weight and thus also with lower manufacturing costs. As already discussed in Chapter 19.4.1., such turbines have a basic inherent potential for lowering costs in comparison with the threebladed rotors com monly used today.;Singlebladed rotors have even more unfavourable dynamic properties thantwobladed ones. It is for this reason, and others, that wind turbines of the onebladed Monopteros series were dimensioned for a very low specific power loading (approx.