340 CHAPTER 9 MECHANICAL DRIVE TRAIN AND NACELLEdynamic feature only takes into consideration the type of loading (fatigue load spec trum) and assumes the cause of a failure to be material fatigue. Unfavourable operating conditions must be taken into consideration additionally by means of certain factors.;In order to account for severe operating conditions, the achievable modified servicelife was introduced in DIN ISO 281 9. The problem is, however, that for the different operating conditions, corresponding influencing quantities must be found. The bearing manufacturers have not as yet found a common approach to this problem. Apart from the DIN Standard, international guidelines such as the AGMA 6006A03, are also used for calculating the design life of roller bearings.;The main bearings in wind turbines are today almost exclusively roller bearings, the most frequent type of rotor bearing being doublerow swiveljoint roller bearings since this type of construction is best suited for absorbing the bending deformations of the rotor shaft. The axial movements of the shaft resulting from the bending can lead to premature wear. This effect must be taken into account in the selection of bearings and the design of the bearing housing. Since they can absorb high static loads, socalled ball bearing slewing rings are more suitable for the slowspeed rotor blade and tower head bearings.;Apart from the usual roller bearing mounting it is being considered time and again,especially in conjunction with the increasing size of wind turbines, also to use sliding bearings as used, for example, in large steam turbines. Sliding bearings are character ised by extremely low wear but they are expensive and require elaborate lubrication. They are also sensitive to dynamic load peaks and deformations. However, their sup porters point out that modern sliding bearings can be designed in such a way that they meet the demands made on rotor bearings and are also suitable for use in gearboxes. A sliding bearing already represents an alternative for the towerhead bearing today (see Chapt. 9.13). Novel types of sliding bearing can also be considered for the rotor blade bearings but have not yet been used for this purpose to the present day.;Lubrication with bearing grease is sufficient for many purposes. The lubricatinggrease is introduced during the assembly of the bearings and may remain in the bearings for their entire lifespan. The essential disadvantage that the bearing temperature cannot be influenced by the lubrication is acceptable if the bearings are adequately dimen sioned. Almost all the smaller wind turbines and even some of the larger ones therefore use greaselubricated rotor bearings. In the more recent turbines, fresh roller bearing grease is added automatically at predetermined time intervals by means of socalled lubricators. However, this makes the lubrication system much more complex.