The search for designs which were suitable for very large rotor blades posed a specialproblem in the past. In countries in which the first large experimental turbines were de veloped specific technology programs for the development of large rotor blades had been established. The NASA MOD0 test turbine in the USA, for example, was used for testing a large number of different rotor blades from various manufacturers. It can nowadays be said that some designs, for example those using steel or aluminium, were merely temporary solutions for the test turbines then used. Todays designs are deter mined by the use of composite fibre materials.;The rotor blades of the commercial wind turbines are supplied by specialised manufacturing companies, on the one hand, so that small wind turbine manufacturers are able to purchase welltried rotor blades as vendor parts. On the other hand, the large, leading manufacturers of wind turbine units are increasingly developing and producing their own systems. The rotor blades are considered to be the key component for the further techni cal development of the entire wind turbine system.;Even though the rotor blades of present day wind turbines are made almost exclusively of fibre composites and their type of construction is thus largely predetermined, the fundamental relationships and experience gained from the implementation of other designs will be discussed in the following sections. This experience with other types of construction may well prove to be useful in building the wind turbines of the future, where rotor diameters of 120 m and more are contemplated.;In the past, the starting point for the consideration of rotor blade design was the question as to which material is most suitable. Design and manufacturing methods are determined to a large extent by the properties of the material used. Conversely, the design also places certain constraints on the materials to be used and thus sets criteria for the selection of materials. In other words, the selection of material, the principle of the conceptual design and the production method cannot be considered independently of each other in a real situation. It nevertheless makes sense to initially analyse the available materials with re spect to their suitability for wind rotor blades. Judging from experience gained in aircraft engineering, the following materials are considered as suitable in principle   aluminium,  titanium,  steel,  fibre composite material (glass, carbon and aramide fibres),  wood.  The most important material properties by which a first assessment can be made are   specific weight (10Ndm)  strength limit (Nmm)  modulus of elasticity (kNmm2)