10.5 DIRECTLY ROTORDRIVEN VARIABLESPEED GENERATORS 417cascade converter with DC link, which is superior to a cycloconverter with respect to its control characteristics and speed range, is used today (Fig. 10.33). About 30  of the total generated power flows via the inverter to the grid. Therefore the total efficiency of the system is only 1 to 2  lower compared to a fixedspeed induction generator.;The idea of driving the electric generator directly from the rotor without intermediate gear box is as old as modern wind energy technology. However, due to the slow rotor speed in large wind turbines, the generator requires such a large number of poles to reach the grid frequency that the generator diameter and weight assume unacceptable dimensions (see Chapt. 8.1). In the meantime, efficient and costeffective inverters are available so that the generator itself no longer needs to generate the required grid frequency (Fig. 10.34).;10.5.1 Synchronous Generator with Electric Excitation;The credit for having been the first to successfully implement the design of a directdrive generator with inverter is due to the German manufacturer Enercon. The generator de veloped in the midnineties for the E40 type is an electrically excited synchronous ma chine with 84 poles. Its diameter is approximately 4.8 m (Fig. 10.35). The nominal power of 500 kW is reached at a speed of 38 r.p.m.. The usable speed range is between 2040 r.p.m.. The generator generates a frequency of 16  Hz at the nominal operating point, which is then converted to the grid frequency of 50 Hz by the inverter. Electrical effi ciency of the generator with inverter is specified as approx. 0.94 at maximum economical rating and is almost constant over the operating range.;The input to the grid is effected via a DC link circuit with an inverter which has virtually no harmonics. The output voltage is already at a mediumvoltage level (20 kV) so that no separate transformer is necessary if a mediumvoltage system is being fed. The control system offers several adaptive options, which facilitate operation on weak grids. Power limitation depending on grid voltage fluctuations prevents inadmissible voltage peaks in the grid. As in all synchronous generators, reactivepower output, i.e. cos , is regulated. In addition, it is possible to set the minimum and maximum frequency for operation on the grid. This gridvoltage and frequencycontrolled operation stabilises the grid frequency, which can be very important with weak feeders.