11.8 INTERACTION WITH THE GRID 463basis for this are variablespeed systems with synchronous generators and full power inverters for cos  control. Naturally, the interaction of the control system of a wind turbine with the power grid has its limits.;The general requirements of power quality and allowable impacts from power production units are described in numerous national rules. The regional or local grid op erators have more specific standards depending on the characteristic of their grids. A European standard (EN 50160) is under development. As an example the situation in Germany will be outlined. In January 2003, Eon Netz, the largest German power system operator, issued detailed grid connection regulations for their grid area 8. Apart from the fact that the majority of wind turbines in Germany feed into the grid of Eon, it can be expected that these rules will become generally binding in Europe, al beit with local deviations. The rules apply to the highvoltage and extrahigh voltage grid. Most of the requirements relate to the operation of an entire wind park which is connected to a certain grid connecting point and, therefore, do not necessarily need to be applied to individual turbines. The most important requirements from this set of regulations are;The cutin current of the wind park must not be greater than 1.3 times the current corre sponding to the grid connection capacity. In this context, attention must be paid to the high cutin currents when connecting directly gridcoupled asynchronous generators to the grid. Modern asynchronous generators are therefore equipped with thyristor controlled soft grid coupling (s.a. Chapt. 10.3.2).;After a lack of voltage, the rise in active power of a wind park must not exceed a gradi ent of 10 of the grid connection capacity per minute. In addition, the power system operators intend to limit the activepower output of the wind turbines under certain load conditions in the grid by means of a signal from their power system control centre. This socalled generation management is less of a control problem than an economic prob lem for the wind turbine operator.;When certain predetermined limit values of grid voltage or frequency are exceeded in either direction, the wind turbine must disconnect itself from the grid within a few tens of milliseconds. This ensures that power feeding really only takes place within the limits of parallelgrid operation set by the power system operator. Should there be an increase in voltage, for instance at night due to a decrease in loads, the power output of the wind turbine must be automatically reduced. There must be no automatic separation from the grid within a frequency range of 47.5 to 51.5 Hz. Outside of this frequency range, the wind park must be separated from the grid without delay.