Thus, appropriate precautions must be taken at certain sites. The installation of an icewarning system which would shut down the wind turbine during critical weather condi tions is one possibility.;In view of the possible hazards caused by rotor parts or chunks of ice being flung off, various probability calculations have been carried out with the aim of determining the statistical risk to a person nearby. When looked at closely, the results of such mathe matical predictions of safety depend almost exclusively on the possible range of the parameters used. Considering thus their extremely dubious value, one would do better to refrain from using them when dealing with wind turbines. Wind turbine technology does not need such magical formulae to prove its harmlessness to the public. Instead, some readily comprehensible remarks about the safety risk of this technology will not go amiss here.;Firstly, there is the question of the frequency of accidents and, secondly, the question of the extent of the consequences to be expected with the occurrence of such an accident. The dangerousness could be defined as the product of frequency and the severity of its effects.;This may be illustrated by two examples road traffic with automobiles is characterised by an appalling frequency of accidents. Although the number of people injured annually in road accidents reaches the familiar order of magnitude, it will be found that the effects of each individual event  as painful as they may be to those concerned  remain within calculable limits. This may well be a possible reason why, despite the 5000 fatalities per year for example in Germany alone, this technology is not rejected by society.;With nuclear power technology it is quite the other way round. The probability of anaccident occurring is very low  that must be conceded to the promoters of this technol ogy. But the possible consequences of an accident are practically incalculable. Even though it was a long way from being the Maximum Credible Accident (MCA), the reactor accident of Chernobyl made this quite clear for the first time. This is the reason why this technology will always be rejected by apart of society. Does this make motor traffic and nuclear power dangerous technologies? It is not the task of this book to find an answer to this question. It is only intended here to apply this approach also to wind energy technology.;Firstly, it can be stated that in professionally built wind turbines, the frequency of rotorblade breakage is very low. The probability of a person being hit is even lower. It can, therefore, be said that the frequency of fatal accidents due to selfdestructing rotor parts can rightly be classified as extremely low, even when massed clusters of wind turbines are considered.;How, then, about the conceivable extent of a catastrophe caused by wind turbines? Even with pessimistic assumptions, a detached rotor blade cannot have the same conse quences as, for example, a comparable critical technical failure in a car, or an aircraft. And a comparison with a nuclear power plant need not even be attempted as it is com pletely inappropriate. Thus, wind power technology can be called decidedly harmless