14.1 FROM ROTOR POWER CHARACTERISTICS TO TURBINE POWER CURVE 555aerodynamics  and also the losses in the mechanicalelectrical drive train  it must be taken into consideration that these only become effective in the partialload range. In the fullload range, i.e. at wind velocities above the rated wind velocity, there is more than enough wind power available so that the wind turbine can deliver the maximum genera tor power virtually independently of its efficiency.; Wind turbines equipped with an electrical generator which is directly coupled to thegrid must be operated at a constant rotor speed. This prevents the tipspeed ratio from being adapted to the variable wind speed. The rotor can only be operated at one point with the theoretically best possible cPR value. Determining a constant rotor speed which, however, is optimal with respect to the maximization of the energy yield requires the frequency distribution of the wind speeds to be included (Chapt. 13.3.1). The optimum rotor speed thus established and the installed rated generator power determine the nominal operating point in the rotor power characteristics. In normal circumstances, the nominal operating point is located on the left and below the maximum cPR value (Fig. 14.5).; In the partial load range, i.e. in the wind speed range below the rated wind speed,; In the partial load range, i.e. in the wind speed range below the rated wind speed,generator power cannot be used as a reference parameter for controlling the blade pitch angle. For this reason, the rotor is generally operated with a constant blade pitch angle in this range. This constraint, too, results in some loss of power. It is only with the aid of a complex, socalled adaptive control procedure, that the rotor can be operated with variable blade pitch angle without loss of power along the en velope of the cPR characteristics.; In the full load range, in which the maximum generator power is achieved, the rotorpower output is limited at wind speeds above the rated wind speed. The blade pitch an gle is controlled such that the maximum generator power is not exceeded.;Given these constraints, the following rotor operating characteristics for partial and fullload operation are obtained (Fig. 14.5). For rotors without blade pitch control, there are no rotor power characteristics in the form described above. The set of curves is reduced to one power curve based on the design blade pitch angle. On the righthand side, this curve corresponds to partialload operating conditions of the controlled rotor with constant blade pitch angle. On the lefthand side, the controlled fullload curve is replaced by the limited power yield due to stalling caused by flow separation at the rotor blades (Chapt. 5.3.2).