9.4 ROTOR HUB 321can be shaped with smooth contours following the load paths. Local stress peaks, result ing from corners and from discontinuities in the wall thickness profile, are avoided. The costs for the necessary casting moulds are, of course, a disadvantage. From the point of view of economics, these costs can only be justified if larger quantities are produced. Cast hubs are, therefore, to be found today in wind turbines which are in series produc tion.;9.4.2 Rotor Hub Concepts for TwoBladed Rotors;The designers of the large twobladed experimental turbines from the eighties spent a great deal of effort on trying to find a suitable design of the hub. They tried to incorpo rate a functional compliance in the rotor hub to compensate for the unfavourable re sponse of the twobladed rotor to loading. Numerous functional concepts and designs were tried and the findings from these trials will regain their significance if and when the twobladed rotor again becomes an attractive solution with the increasing size of wind turbine installations, for instance in offshore wind farms. The material of the hub was welded steel in nearly all cases. Cast steel hubs appeared later when the three bladed rotors were produced in larger series.;In large twobladed rotors, the hingeless hub is rather an exception. Its simple design must be paid for with extraordinarily stiff and heavy components. As a consequence of the uneven flow against the rotor, the yawing moment about the vertical axis, in particu lar, is transferred undamped to the turbine and especially to the yaw system and ulti mately to the entire wind turbine. A typical representative of this design philosophy is the experimental GermanSwedish Aeolus II turbine (Fig. 9.13). It is welded from sheet steel and weights approximately 30 metric tonnes.;A teetering hub with blade pitch coupling was built for the first time in 1959 by U. Htter (Fig. 9.14). Blade pitch coupling was effected by a mechanical linkage at a ratio of 13 to the teetering angle. This hub design became the model for all wind turbines with teetering hub in existence today. The teetering hub of the large Growian wind turbine was designed in direct derivation from the Htter design. Using the W34 as a model, blade pitch coupling was effected by means of a mechanical linkage. The cou pling ratio between teetering angle and blade pitch angle varied between a factor of 1 and 2.5, depending on the blade pitch angle set.;As consequence of the large dimensions of Growian the hub was designed as awelded steel frame (Fig. 9.15). In practical operation it proved to be extremely problem atic. Cracks appeared in the trelliswork of the teetering frame structure after less than 100 hours of operation. Checks and stress measurements uncovered local stress concen trations considerably exceeding the allowable values. Despite multiple reinforcements,