The installation of the electric generator in the nacelle is a mechanical engineering prob lem in the area of the drive train design. For wind turbines with direct driven generator the situation naturally is completely different compared to a drive train with a gearbox. In the first case the generator is an integral part of the load carrying structure of the nacelle and the rotor bearing system (s. Chapt. 9.3.2).;In wind turbines with a gearbox the generator can be flanged directly to the gearbox,so that provision of a long driving shaft can be avoided (Chapt. 9.8). This feature is used in some small wind turbines. The rigid connection from transmission to generator, how ever, is not without its problems. The drive train is always subjected to certain deforma tions. This almost certainly necessitates flexible connecting elements between the components, if twisting, and with it additional loads in the drive train, are to be avoided. Assembly and maintenance are considerably facilitated if small misalignments between generator and gearbox can be tolerated, which will be compensated for by a flexible coupling. In addition, accessibility of the rear of the gearbox and of the front of the generator should be ensured by providing a certain clearance between the two.;The connecting shaft of the gearbox exit to the electric generator, the highspeedshaft, rotates at the nominal generator speed of 1500 r.p.m in 50 Hz systems and 1800 r.p.m. in 60 Hz systems. Generators with more than two pole pairs are used in some cases, so that the required driving speed can also be, for example, 750 r.p.m. and 900 r.p.m, respectively. In any case, in comparison with the slower rotor shaft, the torque to be transferred is smaller by the gear ratio of the gearbox to the generator, so that the dimensioning of the generator drive shaft presents no problems in the prevailing range of loads. Nevertheless, several problems specific to wind turbines must be solved when the shaft and the generator are installed.;For the reasons mentioned, detachable and flexible connecting couplings are generally built into the highspeed generator drive shaft. The requirements of detachable connection and flexibility are met by the most varied types of couplings. They are used in industrial mechanical engineering in numerous designs and sizes. It is not the task of this book to provide a systematic overview of these. The designer of a wind turbine has the task of defining the requirements for the coupling function as precisely as possible, and then of consulting the manufacturers about the choice of design which best meets his requirements (Fig. 9.57).;In the past, simple couplings of elastic material were often used between gearbox andgenerator in small wind turbines (Fig. 9.58). Instead of a generator drive shaft, Vbelt drives are also frequently used in small turbines. It is mainly the small turbines of Dan ish origin which occasionally have Vbelts for driving their generators. The Vbelt drive has the advantage that it combines the desirable flexible connection to the transmission with overload protection. Its disadvantages are wear and lower efficiency (slippage), which is significant at higher outputs. The couplings in the highspeed shaft can take on another important task beyond their connecting and compensating functions. In the case of a failure, extreme loads can occur in the mechanical drive train of a wind turbine which make it advisable to imple ment a rupture joint for safety reasons. The generator shortcircuit torque, in particular, can reach a value of 5 or 6 times the rated torque (Chapt. 10.1). From the economic