In the physical sense, potential  the ability to perform work  is a state variablewhich can be accurately described and thus does not need to be interpreted. In the case of wind energy it has been pointed out that about 2  of the solar energy captured by the earths atmosphere is converted into motion of the air masses. Mathematically, this yields a power (power because the energy is quantifiable only over a certain period of time) of approximately 4 x 1012 kW. This is one hundred times more than the total powerplant capacity installed on earth (s. Chapt. 13.1). Naturally, the exploitable po tential is very much smaller, but all other restrictions are firstly of a technical nature and then of an economic nature, and are ultimately a question of the social consensus about the importance to be accorded wind energy utilisation. Apart from the basic physical value mentioned, all other figures about the potential of wind energy thus always amount to saying if it is assumed that ... then a potential of ... is obtained. Controver sies are caused less by the results than by the assumptions on which they are based.;Nearly all serious studies about windenergy potential arrive at the result that underrealistic conditions, the wind energy potential has the order of magnitude of hundreds of thousands of megawatts. However, one cannot expect unambiguous and reproduci ble results from these investigations. One must be aware that, as has been mentioned before, the technically usable windenergy potential is not a physically defined state variable and hence precise and undisputed figures cannot be expected. The assumptions on which the numerical values are based allow a wide range of results. Thus, an assess ment of these figures can only be carried out by evaluating the assumptions made. By comparison, gaps still existing in the data on the wind regimes are of much lesser significance. Regionally, unreliable wind data can quite easily lead to an erroneous assessment of the winds potential, but this has no significant influence on the global resources. The attempt to compile the results of the various estimates in conjunction with the preconditions on which they were based in an overview produced the follow ing categories concerning the potential of wind energy;As mentioned earlier, the atmospheric potential of wind energy exceeds the globally in stalled powerplant capacity by two orders of magnitude. It is true that, from an eco nomic point of view, this fact is not of interest, nevertheless it should not be completely ignored. This energy potential does indeed exist and if it were possible to use even less than one percent of it, all energy problems with respect to the generation of power would be solved.;Basically, there are neither physical nor technical obstacles precluding the utilisationof this potential. For example, the exploitation of wind energy at an altitude of one thousand meters above the open sea is no further away from current technological real ity than the utilisation of nuclear fusion by commercial utilities. The decisive difference as to why vast sums of dollars are being invested in the research into nuclear fusion and not, e.g., wind power is probably only due to the fact that the established scientific and technical lobby for nuclear physics and its attendant industry has enough political influ ence to force through these immense expenditures.