44 CHAPTER 2 ELECTRICAL POWER FROM THE WIND  THE FIRST ATTEMPTSlanding. At the same time, large industrial companies, primarily in the aerospace industry cooperating with NASA, were engaged to study the subject.;In 1973, the U.S. Federal Wind Energy Programme was adopted. Its political man;In 1973, the U.S. Federal Wind Energy Programme was adopted. Its political management was handed to the Department of Energy (DOE) and a budget of approx.  200 million was authorised. In the following years, numerous theoretical and experimental studies were conducted, the results of which are still of significance and, in addition, sev eral large experimental wind power plants were built and intensively tested 20. Apart from the state funded projects, there were also some noticeable private initiatives in which it was attempted to develop modern wind power plants without much public funding. Neighbouring Canada, too, became involved in the development of wind energy technol ogy for generating power. Similarly to the USA, the initiative came from governmental research institutions 21.;In Denmark, a commission of experts declared in 1974 that it should be possible togenerate 10  of the Danish power requirement from wind energy without creating par ticular problems in the public power grid. The initial research work was concentrated on recommissioning the 200kW plant near Gedser, built in 1957 by J. Juul. The turbine, which had been decommissioned in 1967, was overhauled in collaboration with NASA, and an extensive test programme was carried out. This led directly to the erection of two large experimental turbines in the vicinity of Aalborg 22. At the same time, as well as the development of large turbines, the private use of small turbines was being promoted. Pieking up where developments had stopped in the forties, it was now possible to produce and sell the first commercially usable small 55kW turbines in relatively large numbers. To start with, the buyers of these turbines received considerable subsidies but these were reduced over the years. By 1990, more than 2500 turbines, with outputs from 55 to about 300 kW, had been installed. This was a total of approximately 200 MW and formed the foundation stone for the Danish wind turbine industry.;Development (NE) was founded in 1975. In a tenyear programme, about 280 million Swedish crowns were made available for the development of wind energy. In addition to theoretical and experimental research work, two large experimental turbines with a rated power of two and three Megawatt, respectively, were built 23.;In the Federal Republic of Germany, the state subsidised work on the development ofwind energy goes back to the year 1974. The starting point was a programme study which needs to be mentioned in some detail at this point since it had a decisive influence on the first phase of wind energy technology in Germany. The then Bundesministerium fr For schung und Technologie (BMFT  Federal Ministry for Research and Technology), headed by H. Matthfer, commissioned a study with the title Energy Sources for Tomor row? from the Kernforschungsanlage Jlich GmbH (KfA) (Nuclear Research Organisa tionnote the ironical question mark).