10.4 VARIABLE SPEED GENERATOR SYSTEMS WITH INVERTER 409from the stator by means of suitable inverters. In this way, only a part of the electric power generated needs to be sent through the inverter. However, this implementation requires a slip ring rotor, which is associated with higher costs and more maintenance.;Today, variablespeed generator systems are the preferred design for large wind turbines, making the frequency inverter into an essential, component for a wind turbine with variable rotor speed. For this reason it is necessary to deal with some of the fun damental terms of static converter technology and the characteristics of the various designs of frequency inverters.;As has already been pointed out in Chapter 9.1, it cannot be the task of this book to pro vide a fundamental introduction into generator engineering or into static converter engi neering. This must be obtained from the relevant technical literature 13. Nevertheless, some terms from static converter engineering will be presented here and the most impor tant features of the frequency inverters currently used will be explained to the extent to which they play a role in the technology of wind turbines.;Modern inverter technology is based on the use of semiconductor components. These are used as socalled converter valves which only pass electrical current in one direc tion. They are periodically alternately put into an electrically conductive and non conductive state and therefore also act as switches. The switching actions are very fast, within the microsecond range since they do not require any mechanical processes. In the simpliest case the function of a converter valve is fulfilled by a diode. They are continu ously conductive in one direction and block the current in the opposite direction. How ever, they cannot be controlled from the outside. Inverters based on simple diodes can not be considered for greater powers and do not, therefore, play any role in the power electronics for wind turbines.;In the case of controllable converter valves, socalled thyristors, it is possible to determine the time of conductivity. This process is called ignition. Thyristors are manu factured in various types which have different control facilities, e.g. as socalled gate turnoff (GTO) or integrated gatecommutated transistors (IGCT). The introduction of thyristor technology resulted in a breakthrough of inverter technology into power elec tronics in many fields of application. Frequency inversion became possible without great losses even in the megawatt range.;The inverters of the older wind turbines were based on thyristors. These invertersneed reactive current from the grid so that corresponding compensation devices became necessary. The harmonics generated, too, had to be suppressed as far as possible by means of relatively elaborate filters so that feeding into the grid was possible without too many problems. The problem of harmonics existed mainly in the case of the older inverters which were still operating in a 6pulse mode. The number of pulses is deter mined by the current transitions (commutations) from one converter valve to another within one period. It is an essential characteristic of static converter circuits. Modern inverters operate with a 12pulse circuit in threephase systems which provides a much