The first offshore wind farms with powers of 100 or 200 MW can still be fed into the relatively closelymeshed highvoltage grid on land (i.e. 110 kV). The future large off shore wind farms with powers of 1000 MW, however, need to be linked to the extra high voltage grid (220 to 380 kV). At present, overhead extrahigh voltage transmission lines can only be found close to the large power stations or the large power consumers, in large cities or centres of industry. In the area of the German NorthSea and BalticSea coast, for example, only six possible points of coupling to the extrahigh voltage grid are mentioned 12.;If the offshore wind energy utilization advances into these power ranges, an extension of the highvoltage and extrahigh voltage grids will becomes necessary. Natu rally, this is associated with considerable investments. Critics who wish to use this fact as a reason for the impossibility of utilising wind energy in this dimension should remind themselves that the erection of the large power stations on land also required a corresponding extension of the grids. If in future, the flow of energy comes from a large number of decentralised smaller power stations, the same will naturally apply.;The installation and the operation of wind turbines at sea makes special demands on the concept of transportation and assembly and the later operation of the turbines, as it does for all offshore structures. The associated problems and costs acquire a completely dif ferent significance from those of the utilisation of wind energy on land.;The first difficulties occur at the latest when the future large turbines of 45megawatts are being transported. It is difficult to imagine that the tower sections and rotor blades with lengths of more than 50 m can still be transported long distances over land. This also applies to the offshore foundation, for example if more complex structures are used such as, e.g. tripod foundations. For economic reasons, efforts will be made to prefabricate the turbines and components on land as much as possible in order to avoid the expensive assembly at sea with its uncertainties with respect to time and weather. If, for example, there are delays in the assembly due to bad weather, the necessity of storing the components immediately arises at the manufacturing site and this can be a problem given the existing dimensions (Figs. 17.17 and 17.18).;Transportation to the site generally takes place on a floating assembly platform. Forthis purpose, socalled jackup platforms or ships are used. These have support feet that can be lowered to the sea floor for the assembly work. During transportation, the sup ports are pulled up and the platform is towed by a tow boat (Figs. 17.19 and 17.20).;The extent of the assembly works at sea and the equipment required for this are determined by the type of foundation, among other things. Monopile foundations require heavy hydraulic hammer works in order to ram the steel pipes with 4 m diameters into the sea bottom to a depth of about 20 m (see Chapt. 17.1.2). The assembly of tripod foundations requires less heavy equipment. However, the transportation of the tripod