Table 20.10. Prices paid for wind energy in some member states of the European Union (CentkWh) and in the US (US CentskWh);8.8  9.2 7.5 7  8 8.3 15  20 8  9 8.5 8.2 10  11 5  6 4.86  1.7;In many cases, the costs of generating electricity from wind energy are derived fromaverage values of the general electricity prices. The increasing liberalisation of the elec tricity market in the EU has resulted in a continuous movement in the electricity prices in recent years which also affect the payments for electricity fed in from renewable sources so that the current payments for supply must be ascertained with respect to the present day. However, in Germany, the Renewable Energies Law (REL) has resulted in the link between payment for supply and the general electricity prices being broken as was intended politically. This provision, which is advantageous for the development of renewable energies, was initially very controversial but, on the other hand, proved to be a decisive economic foundation for expanding the utilization of wind energy. But in recent years, the electricity prices have been rising again and nobody is seriously ex pecting any longer that the electricity prices will drop again in the future. In view of this perspective, the electricitypriceindependent payment for electricity fed in according to the REL can no longer be considered to be futureoriented.;Those who calculate with increasing proceeds from the sale of electricity over a period of 20 years will obtain a quite different picture of the economic viability of the generation of electricity from wind energy. In most other countries, the payment for electricity is linked to the electricity prices, thus offering a better longterm economic perspective. The course has already been set in this direction in connection with the construction of the first large offshore wind parks. Looked at from this perspective, the decisive criterion is the comparison with the development of power generation costs of the conventional power stations over the next twenty or thirty years.;The reference for future power generation costs is the complete cost accounting fornew power stations. A serious business calculation will show that power cannot be generated for less than 0.10 USkWh even with the most costefficient gas and steam power stations today or in the near future. Coalfired power stations using imported coal have power generation costs of at least 0.10 to 0.15 USkWh (Table 20.11). It must be emphasised at this point that this is a purely business calculation. It does not take into consideration the muchquoted external costs of power generation from fossil fuels or