Until 1985, the operators in Denmark received about 30  of the purchase value ofthe units as a direct subsidy from the government. Moreover, no tax was levied on the supply of energy by the wind turbines. Given this prerequisite, the utilities were able to pay a relatively favourable price for the kilowatthour fed into the grid (about 40 0re, or about 0.07 USkWh, in 1994). The governmental subsidy was greatly reduced after 1986 and was eliminated completely not much later. Nevertheless, the installation of wind turbines, which in the meantime were offered at better prices, never came to a complete standstill.;In addition to these economic background conditions, a number of other factors mustalso be mentioned which encouraged the successful use of wind turbines in Denmark. For example, the practice of issuing building permits was already based on generally recognised assessment criteria at a very early point in time. The technical maturity and safety of the units have been attested with a test certificate by the Wind Turbine Test Station in Ris since the early nineteeneighties. The meteorological and geographic preconditions for the successful use of wind turbines have also been researched and published in the Danish Wind Atlas. And, not least, the pattern of rural Danish settle ments with its many single farms generally favoured the decentralised installation of wind turbines.;In parallel with the federal support for the development of largescale wind power plants, the State of California, in a different type of initiative, supported subsidies for the utilisation of regenerative energy sources by indirect measures. In 1976, the Senate decided to provide for a direct tax credit of 10  of the investment costs for solar en ergy utilisation. This tax credit could only be claimed by private investors. The Federal Government followed suit two years later. In their National Energy Act passed in 1978, further concessions were granted for the tax to be paid to the Federal Government and, over the years, supplementary tax laws were added including one relating to the accel erated depreciation of investments of this type. By the end of 1985, the tax advantages for the investors had accumulated into a maximum of 50  of the investment costs and, in some cases, even more, taking into account the possibilities of accelerated depreciation.;The revenue from power sales had the same degree of importance as the fiscal measures. Under the Public Utilities Regulatory Policy Act (PURPA), the public utilities were obliged to accept the power generated from regenerative energy sources in their grids and to pay for it in accordance with the principle of maximum avoided costs. This means that they had to use as a basis for their calculations the highest costs saved at the conventional power stations. In 198485, the two largest utilities in California, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PGE) and the Southern California Edison Com pany (SCE), paid an average of 10 cents, in some cases up to 12 cents, in some cases up to 12 cent, for the power fed into their grids depending on the time of day and the sea son. In 1986, they still paid 0.07  0.09 USkWh on average.