5.3 AERODYNAMIC POWER CONTROL 117influence of wind turbulence can be absorbed better by the stall effect so that, even without elaborate variablespeed generator systems, the power and load peaks are lower than with pitchanglecontrolled rotors. This reduces the fatique loads. In principle, these advantages are confirmed by mathematical models and also by some experimental investigations. Nevertheless the active stall concept could not be established as an alter native to turbines with blade pitch angle control and variablespeed generators.;5.3.4 Transient Aerodynamic Effects and BoundaryLayer Control;Time and again, working with rotor aerodynamics leads to the physical phenomenon of flow separation at the rotor blades  the stall. Incidences of flow separation cannot be easily avoided at least locally, i.e. within limited areas of the blades, even with rotors with conventional blade pitch angle control. This certainly applies in certain operating conditions and in the area of the thick profiles at the blade root. However, under real conditions, the stall characteristics of a rotor are influenced by two flowrelated phe nomena which are not apparent with the airfoil curves determined under twodimensional, steadystate conditions in the wind tunnel. The stall behaviour is in fluenced by the threedimensional flow around the rotor and by transient flow processes with rapid changes in the angle of attack caused, e.g., by air turbulence (s.a. Chapt. 5.1.1).;The socalled threedimensional stall is caused by the threedimensional flow around the rotor blades in the area of the rotor hub and of the blade tip and even more so by the radial component of the flow under the influence of the centrifugal forces in the flow when the rotor is turning. To the present day, this does not readily lend itself to any theoretical treatment and can therefore only be predicted with great inaccuracy 15.;Fast changes in the angle of attack due to turbulences or due to the influence of the tower result in an instantaneous overshoot in the maximum lift coefficient in the vicinity of the flow separation and in an instantaneous shifting of the point of separation of the flow. The return to the initial point takes the form of a hysteresis. This effect influences the start of stalling in the real atmosphere and is dynamic stall behaviour 16.;As will still be discussed in greater detail in Chapter 5.4, the flow conditions are af fected to a high degree by the flow close to the wall of a body passed, the socalled boundary layer. Boundary layer control measures are therefore suitable means for influ encing the flow conditions with respect to the stall behaviour and in certain cases also for improving the rotor performance. These possibilities can be used especially when the aerodynamic rotor design does not exhibit the desired characteristics, either due to