Rotor runaway resulting in the loss of rotor blades was a danger mainly in older andsmaller wind turbines, even though, statistically, this has also been extremely rare. Modern wind turbines have at least two independent systems for rotor braking including multiredundancy release mechanisms, so that this hazard is effectively counteracted. Large turbines contain elaborate rotor brake systems, in any case (see Chapt. 8.7).;The other conceivable case of rotorblade fracture can occur as a result of undetectedmaterial fatigue. After a certain length of time, an undetected progressive fatigue crack will lead to fracture, even without the rotor blades being subjected to abnormal loading.;For the wind turbine, this means a possible blade fracture at rated rotor speed, i.e. in;For the wind turbine, this means a possible blade fracture at rated rotor speed, i.e. innormal operation. In the only case so far where a rotor blade has broken off from a large wind turbine and was hurled away, fatigue fracture was indeed the cause. After a three year operating period, the ageing SmithPutnam turbine lost one rotor blade, the result of fatigue damage at the blade root (Chapt. 2.3). In that particular incident, the 8tonne rotor blade was propelled over a distance of about 230 m. The designers of this wind turbine must be given credit, however, for having known about this weak point, even though the mechanisms of material fatigue had not yet been researched as widely as they are today. However, no preventive repair had ever been carried out due to a lack of funding and because interest in the project had waned.;It is not very easy to predict the flying characteristics of a broken rotor blade or of apart of it. After all, a rotor blade is an aerodynamically shaped structure generating high lifting forces, as it was designed to do. It would be easy to speculate that a detached rotor blade could, like a glider, cover long distances by gliding. However, this possibil ity must be discarded upon closer inspection of the flight stability conditions. The posi tion of the centre of gravity in relation to the centre of aerodynamic pressure does not permit a stable flight position.;Firstly, the rotor blade will tumble on its trajectory, and then it will fly with itsheavy end first. It is, therefore, not to be expected that the aerodynamic lifting forces will increase the trajectory length significantly 2. The problem is reduced to the ques tion as to what is the effective mean drag coefficient over the trajectory. A theoretical analysis calculating trajectory and trajectory length of an example taking into considera tion aerodynamic lift and drag yielded the result that a mean air drag coefficient of cW  0.25 is to be expected 3.;Rotor speed, the blades rotational position and the location of the centre of gravityare the main parameters influencing the trajectory length of the rotor blade becoming detached. In addition, the blade pitch angle at the time of fracture and the momentary wind speed have some influence. The orders of magnitude to be expected for the trajec tory lengths of a detached rotor blade are illustrated by an example. Due to the ratio between aerodynamic forces and gravitational forces, the outer section of a rotor blade can fly the farthest (Fig. 15.1).;Discussing the hazards caused by parts of the rotor being hurled away, the problemof ice accretion at the rotor blades must be mentioned (see Chapt. 18.8.2). Observa tions made on the American MOD0A experimental wind turbine in Clayton have shown that, indeed, significantly large chunks of ice are flung off over considerable distances. Theoretical investigations relating to this problem have also been published in Denmark 4.