One aspect which should be focused on when selecting material and design, is insulation against noise and temperature. Sound insulation of the nacelle is almost always necessary to provide shielding against the gearbox noise. The components of the at least for a closed partsection of the nacelle. For these reasons, costly insulating material having these properties can be more economical than insulating the individual units.;A strategy for reducing overall mass, commonly used in motor vehicle and aircraftconstruction and developed there to perfection, is to integrate the fairing into the load bearing structure. The most favourable design with high stiffness is a selfsupporting stressedskin construction. However, an optimal result will only be achieved if the geo metric shape is chosen accordingly and the loadbearing shell is largely closed. Cylindrical bodies with circular crosssections are best for this purpose (e.g. aircraft fuselage). There are difficulties to be dealt with in production, though. The costs of manufacturing dualcurvature steel sheets are unjustifiably high. Another disadvantage is the difficulties experienced with respect to the insulation of the structureborne sound from the highnoise components inside the nacelle. If, for example, the gearbox is joined directly to the skin, it will be difficult to avoid unpleasant resonances. For these reasons, selfsupporting nacelle structures of welded steel sheet are rarely found today in wind turbines.;Apart from the technical concept, the size of the nacelle plays a role in productioncosts which is not to be underestimated. A compact design with short paths for load transfer from rotor to tower considerably reduces the tower head weight and thus the costs. In contrast to older experimental wind turbines, the more recent large wind tur bines are, therefore, distinguished by their considerably smaller nacelles. Their sizes are dimensioned to provide space for the installation of the aggregates plus an absolute minimum of space for assembly and accessibility for maintenance work.