674 CHAPTER 16 COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS OF WIND TURBINESsubcontractor. The control capabilities of a wind turbine, especially from the aspect of interaction with the electricity grid (s.a. Chapt. 10) is becoming more and more impor tant and, therefore plays an increasing role in the optimisation of the total system and the application of the wind turbine and therefore in the competition.;Although, considered from a technological point of view, the towers of wind turbines are no key components, their increasing size makes very high demands on transporta tion and assembly, resulting again in special types of construction and designs for wind turbines. As a rule, the wind turbine manufacturers try to find local suppliers close to the site. However, rising steel prices and comparatively low transportation costs lead to towers also being supplied over long distances.;In a wind turbine, the variety of other, smaller components from the fields of mechani cal engineering and electrical technology is so large that any enumeration of these would go beyond the scope of this book. However, some components developed as windturbinespecific products by the subcontracting industry in recent years are worth mentioning. These include, for example, controllable blade pitch and yaw drives or highquality cast components for rotor hubs and bedplates. Such components which, following the general trend today, are supplied as complete subsystems by the subcon tractors, are also decisive for the state of the art in the wind turbine industry.;The field of wind turbines and their subcontracting industry also includes the engineer ing and planning services. In the last 20 years, these, too, have evolved from in some cases small engineering teams to fullygrown companies. For example, the British engi neering company Garrard Hassan has become a consulting and development company operating globally. In Germany, Aerodyn is working as a technical design company for many of the larger wind turbine manufacturers and is issuing licences for wind turbine designs. A corresponding large number of jobs has thus also been created in the service sector. The services requested and offered are of such a large variety that a complete overview is not possible here. The most important ones are; Engineering in the technical development and production of wind turbines. Manysmall manufacturers have to rely on these services.