9.8.3 Internal Gearbox Dimensioning and Design;The development and construction of large, highly stressed gearboxes is generally an extremely demanding special field of mechanical engineering. Moreover, the trouble with the gears in wind turbines, which is still not quite over, has uncovered new wind turbineoriented requirements. It is only in recent years that the gearbox manufacturers have acquired sufficient experience and data to be able to develop windturbinespecific gearboxes. The enormous boom in the utilization of wind energy and the associated quantities of units produced has also created the economic prerequisites for the manu facturers to be able to carry out this development work. It is only possible here to pro vide some general information about the internal gearbox design.;The most important internal safety factors for the toothing include the following factors SH  1.1 against pitting SH  1.5 against tooth breakage In addition, there are numerous other criteria for calculating the gearing and the gearing geometry which are available from the technical literature.;In general, the same which has been said already generally with respect to the roller bearings also applies to the design of the bearings. The question of what causes can lead to bearing damage, which has already been pointed out in Chapter 9.6.1, is of particular importance. More than any other bearingassociated tasks, the roller bearings in the gearbox form the link between shafts, gearing and housing which is why many troubles in these components manifest themselves as bearing damage.;The shafts in gearboxes must be designed for overload fracture and fatigue strength, taking into consideration deformations and stress concentrations. The basics for design ing the gearshafts are contained in DIN 743.;Even the most solidlooking gearbox housings are not infinitely rigid. Housing deforma tions, especially when the gearbox has to absorb the rotor stresses, are the cause of many failures. The finiteelement calculation of the housing rigidity is an indispensible aid in this area of gearbox design. Recent gearbox designs incorporate the socalled flexpin design. The gears are mounted in special flexible bearings. This avoids extra loads caused by housing deformations or bending of the shafts.