The elastic components of the structure can be excited into oscillations by external forces. If the excitation frequency is the same as the natural frequency of the compo nents, resonances will occur. The oscillation is continuously supplied with energy which leads to it building up, an effect which can lead to the complete destruction of the struc ture. The oscillations are only counteracted by the socalled structural damping which, as a rule, is very small, and possibly by some external damping such as, e.g. the aerody namic damping with rotor blade oscillations in the flapwise direction. Freedom from resonances is thus an important criterion in the design of the structures and components. This set of problems will be discussed in greater detail in Chapter 8 Vibration Prob lems.;As far as the fatigue strength is concerned, the predominant factors are the absorptionof the external forces by a yielding of the structures and the conversion of energy into the inert masses of the components moved. This phenomenon considerably reduces the stress levels of the structure, i.e. the material stresses.;6.7.1 Functional and Structural Modelling of the Wind Turbine;One problem of structural dynamics consists in the fact that stress can be calculated only in a coherent mathematical model on the basis of the excitation, e.g. the turbulence, via the aerodynamic behaviour of the rotor and the power and speed control of the wind turbine and including the elastic properties of the stressed components. Developing such a complex model composed of several partmodels is an important step in the calcula tion of fatigue strength. However, this also poses the first risks. The quality of the re sults is decided to a large extent by the simplifications and assumptions which must necessarily be made in this context.;The calculation of aerodynamic loading, both due to the steadystate flow against the rotor as well as from wind turbulence, requires an aerodynamic rotor model. Blade element theory, as outlined in Chapter 5, is a suitable instrument for aerodynamic loads from a steadystate wind flow. Dynamic loads caused by wind turbulence and the elastic response of the structure can be calculated by means of a simplified aerodynamic model. A linear analytical approach for the dependence of the aerodynamic force coefficients on the angle of attack is often sufficient (Chapt. 6.5.2).;Theoretical tools for calculating elastic structures are currently in use in many areas of mechanical engineering. They are based almost without exception on the finiteelement model, with the aid of which the natural frequencies and properties of the structural components can be calculated. Knowing the natural frequencies, the dynamic responses