A further problem consists in that the specification of load cases and the loads to bestipulated are always associated with a certain idealisation and simplification of a real state. The loads determined by calculations in the defined load cases are therefore load assumptions which deviate from the real loads to a certain degree. However, this devia tion from reality must always be to the safe side. In other words, the load assumptions used for the design must always be somewhat higher than the loads actually to be ex pected in operation.;According to their intended purpose, load assumptions should have a general validityas far as possible, so that they form a generally accepted basis for the design of a sys tem, claims which form the basis for the existence of the Norms and Standards described in the next chapter. On the other hand, the technical concept of the turbine influences the nature and extent of the loading to a certain degree so that certain load cases occur only with certain technical concepts. A mixture of general validity and individual significance is thus largely unavoidable.;It should also be pointed out that, as a rule, the terms load cases and load assumptions are not clearly delimited with respect to one another. Strictly speaking, the term load case designates the situation in which loads occur. This situation is defined by the external conditions, on the one hand, and, on the other hand by the machine status (see Chapt. 6.5). The load assumptions per se are the idealised loads to be stipulated in the load cases. However, the term load assumptions is often also used as the generic term for the totality of design loads which are then classified as individual load cases.;6.4.1 International and National Design Standards;First attempts at a systematic definition of load assumptions and load cases for modern wind turbines had been undertaken in the eighties in connection with the development of the large experimental Growian and WKA60 wind turbines 10. The standards were initially developed on a national basis but information was exchanged especially under the auspices of the International Energy Agency (IEA) as early as the beginning of the eighties 11. Germanischer Lloyd used this as a basis for building up their set of regu lations which represents an important basis for many wind turbine developments until the present day.;Sweden. In 1988, the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) took over this task on an international basis.. Today the national rules and regulations have largely been replaced by the IEC standards, although the national standards are still in existence since the European standards still do not have unrestricted legal force. Against this background, a sideways glance into the national building regulations is sometimes still necessary.