The fibres are available in greatly varying qualities, from highquality aerospace quality down to lowgrade fibre material for simple fairing structures. This is reflected in the pricing.;Although organic fibres like Kevlar have good strength properties, comparable tocarbon fibre, their other properties present some problems with regard to their use in rotor blades. For one thing, they are hygroscopic, i.e. they absorb moisture. On the other hand, the fatigue strength of organic aramide fibres has not been fieldtested enough up to the present day.;The most widely used fibre is glass fibre. Its strength properties are extraordinarilyhigh but its specific modulus of elasticity is not so good. This means that the stiffness of components made of glass fibre composites is not very high which is one of the reasons why glass fibre structures cannot be used unreservedly for very large rotor blades.;Carbon fibre stands out due to the fact that it has the longest breaking length as wellas a high modulus of elasticity. The stiffness of carbonfibre components is comparable to that of steel structures. Their fatigue strength properties are good. It is only the price of carbon fibres, which continues to remain high, which speaks against it. This is why carbon fibre is frequently used only in combination with glass fibre material for the areas which are particularly subjected to stress. Carbon fibre has virtually no corrosion problems but needs special precautionary measures for protection against lightning when used in rotor blades.;The production techniques, but also to a certain extent the fatigue properties of the components, are largely determined by the properties of the synthetic resins used, the socalled matrix material. Considering the practical aspects, the selection of matrix material is restricted to two products polyester resins and epoxy resins. The resins are available in greatly varying qualities. When selecting a suitable quality, characteristics such as resistance to hydrolysis, dimensional stability under heat, shrinking characteris tics and behaviour under longperiod stressing must be taken into consideration.;Polyester resins are used, in particular, in boatbuilding and in comparable fields ofapplication. They are inexpensive and quite suitable for medium stresses. Most of the earlier rotor blades, especially from Danish production, were manufactured on the basis of polyester resins. A further advantage of polyester resin is that it cures at room tem perature and is thus easier be processed. The main disadvantages in comparison with epoxy resin are its lower strength and the relatively great shrinkage during drying (up to 8 ).;An increasing number of rotor blade manufacturers now prefer to use the expensive,highquality epoxy resins which are exclusively used in aircraft construction. Their strength characteristics are better both with regard to the flow properties with high con centrated loads and to the fatigue strength. Moreover, they do not exhibit any shrinkage like the polyester resins. The weight of the components can be reduced significantly for the same stresses. Apart from the higher costs for the material itself, the fact that epoxy resins cannot be cured at room temperature also presents a disadvantage. They must be dried at a higher temperature of up to approx. 150C and processing is much more complex overall.