The power coefficient cp of the wind turbine shall be added to the test results and pre sented as a curve vs. wind speed at hub height and as a table. The cp will be derived from the normalized and averaged power curve.;The measured power curve shall be supplemented with an estimate of the uncertainty of the measurement. The estimate shall be based on the ISO information publication Guide to the expression of uncertainty in measurement. Following the ISO guide, there are two uncertainties category A, the magnitude of which can be deduced from measurements, and category B, which are estimated by other means.;Category B includes all the inaccuracies and deviations, which can be determinedsystematically. First of all these are effects related to the instrumentation, the data ac quisition system and the terrain surroundings of the test site. In category A variations of the electric power output are comprised which cannot be assessed systematically. Other influencing parameters, for example specific climatic factors on the site like high turbu lence can cause significant deviations from the power curve measured on the test site. In both categories, uncertainties are expressed as standard deviations and are denoted stan dard uncertainties.;The power curve shall be presented in a diagram and in a form of a table. For each wind speed bin the table shall list (Figs. 14.13 and 14.14);The annual energy production (AEP) will be calculated by applying the normalized and averaged power curve to the reference wind speed frequency distribution. A Rayleigh distribution, which is identical to a Weibull distribution with a shape factor of 2, shall be used as the reference wind speed frequency distribution. The uncertainties in the annual energy production, only deal with uncertainties originating from the power performance test and do not take into account uncertainties due to other important factors relating to actual energy production for a given installation, for example siterelated influences in complex terrain (s.a. Chapt. 14.3).