738 CHAPTER 18 WIND TURBINE INSTALLATION AND OPERATIONinvestments constantly required. It is up to the power system operator to include the linkup of decentralized power generating systems in the planning. In many countries, the power system operators are obligated by the legal requirements to upgrade the grids further in favour of the infeeding of power from renewable energy sources. This would considerably improve the preconditions for operating wind turbines in parallel with mediumvoltage grids, especially in structurally weak but very windy regions. The cur rent grid situation should, therefore, not be considered as being unchangeable in any way. On the other hand, the wind turbines are also becoming increasingly more grid compatible. With each new generation of turbines, their controllability with respect to the infeeding of power and the maintenance of certain parameters specified by the power system is becoming better.;18.2.4 Site Preparation and Building Activities;Before starting with the building activities on the site an installation and infrastructure plan must be designed for the abovementioned requirements (Fig. 18.13). These docu ments are generally required in any case as part of the planning permission by the build ing authorities.;Once the positions of the wind turbines in the available wind farm area have been established, the construction of the foundations can begin. As a rule, this task is performed by local construction companies provided with appropriate specifications by the wind turbine manufacturer. However, distinctive local features such as the soil bearing capa bility and drainage must also be taken into consideration (s. Chapt. 12.8). After that, the terrain must be made accessible for the transportation, erection and later maintenance of the turbines. The first question is that of access routes for transporting the turbines to their installation sites. In many cases, these have to be newly constructed or existing routes have to be upgraded. In this respect, the surfacing of the roadways to support transporters having a weight of up to several hundred tons is not infrequently associated with extra costs. The areas for parking the transport and construction vehicles and for any longer temporary storage of the large components such as rotor blades, tower sections and nacelle which may be necessary also require a certain amount of planning.;For the installation of the wind turbines, special crane platforms are provided next tothe foundations and must also be planned for and in most cases leveled and surfaced. The owners of the land generally require these to be removed after the turbines have been taken into operation, a handicap with regard to later repair requirements and one which presents additional operating costs.;Further construction work is associated with the grid transfer substation. Its locationis determined by the cabling of the individual turbines and the distance from the grid. In many cases, it is not possible to achieve the theoretically optimum location since the location of the substation is determined by the lease agreement with the owners of the land.;The excavation work includes the digging of the trenches. The local electricity utilities have special regulations for laying underground cables which have also be taken into consideration for the internal cabling of the turbines. Small and mediumsized wind farms do not require a permanent service building. A service building, possibly with a