11.4 POWER CONTROL WITH ROTOR BLADE PITCHING 443requires a great deal of experience. With respect to forming an aerodynamic model this means, for example, that the model loses its validity as it approaches stall. This so called poststall behaviour must, therefore, be dealt with separately if it is estimated to be critical.;11.4.2 FixedSpeed Generators Directly Coupled to the Grid;From the point of view of control, the operation of a wind turbine on a fixedfrequency grid represents the simplest case. In load operation the speed of the electric generator, and hence of the rotor, is determined by the fixed grid frequency, if the generator is directly electrically coupled with its stator winding to the grid. With respect to a wind turbine, the interconnected transmission systems of the public utilities are generally to be considered as having a fixed frequency. At most feedin points of the grid, the load changes caused by a turbine feeding into the grid are too small to exert a measurable influence on the frequency, compared with the total load of a large grid. The situation can be different on weak spur lines.;The technical preconditions for parallelgrid operation differ depending on the typeof generator installed. These differences are more important, as the practical applica tion is not solely restricted to the synchronised operation on the grid, but also includes other operating modes such as startup, synchronisation with the grid frequency and rotor braking.;For turbines with blade pitch control, the use of induction generators simplifies the task of controlling. The  albeit slight  powerdependent speed elasticity due to generator slip allows speed and power control to be combined. In the typical control structure shown in Figure 11.10, the controllers are arranged separately such that the speed con troller has a limiting effect on the output of the power controller.;In normal operation, the nominal speed is set several percent higher than the corresponding value of the grid frequency. Apart from startup and shutdown sequences, the speed control only intervenes in cases of trouble (for example a grid failure). The speed setpoint value can be varied for startup and shutdown and for preparing for grid synchronisation.;The arrangement shown enables the speed controller to be adjusted to idling and thepower controller to be adjusted to grid operation. A secondary blade pitchingrate con troller is also included in the bladepitch control, to improve its stability and dynamic range. This means that the pitchingrate is regulated by the setpoint values of the nomi nal rotor speed in dependence on the gradient of the measured deviation. Allowing for this parameter results in softer blade pitching, a desirable feature in large turbines.;Recording the actual value of the blade pitch angle and the pitching rate requires thetransmission of a signal from the rotating rotor. If the two inner control loops are omit ted, the power controller then directly acts on the pitch mechanism and no pitch angle information is required. This simple structure provides a sufficiently stable control