866 CHAPTER 20 WIND TURBINE ECONOMICSwind energy competing with the conventional power stations will be competitive within a few years. This is already the case in some countries.;In discussions of renewable energy systems the question is frequently asked of whether the energy required for manufacturing the equipment is not greater than the energy yielded during the service life of the system. Quite generally, this can be coun tered with the argument that when an energygenerating system has a fairly acceptable commercial capital recovery time, its energy recovery period will in any case be shorter since the energy costs constitute only a fraction of the manufacturing costs. Even if the manufacturing costs are greater by one order of magnitude than what is required for achieving commercial redemption, the system repays itself from an en ergy point of view.;When determining the energy requirement of the manufacturing process, attentionmust be paid to the fact that an assessment is made of the different types of energy used. Due to their conversion efficiencies of 0.3 to 0.4, the value of electrical and mechanical energy must be rated about three times higher than thermal energy. Owing to its high conversion efficiency of 0.8 to 0.9, the amount of thermal energy obtained can be considered as equal to the primary energy used, in a first approximation. Table 20.12 shows the energy recovery time of a mediumsized wind turbine. The specific primary energy values listed indicate the energy required for semifinished production and processing.;Table 20.12. Energy requirement for manufacturing a mediumsized wind turbine with 53 m rotor diameter and 1000 kW rated power. Annual energy yield 2.4 million kWh;Accordingly, the primary energy requirement amounts to 2 million kWh for themanufacture of the wind turbine. The primary energy equivalent of the annual electrical energy yield of 2.4 million kWh amounts to 6.85 million kWh. Thus, the resultant en ergy redemption time is 34 months. If a wind turbine has an assumed life of 20 years, a