5.3 AERODYNAMIC POWER CONTROL 119are not reliable. To subsequently reduce the excessive power output, socalled stall strips can be mounted on the rotor blades. If they are used at the right places in the area of the leading edge, they result in an earlier onset of flow separation and thus in a reduc tion of maximum power output. They have, therefore, the opposite effect from the vor tex generators but their disadvantage is that the power curve is also degraded in the lower area and this is associated with power losses.;Using vortex generators and stall strips is not a universal patent recipe for achievingimprovements in stallcontrolled rotors. In principle, they are only effective where the flow conditions are not optimal right from the start. The better approach is rotor blades which are carefully designed aerodynamically.;In general, it must be noted that the stall characteristics, particularly of large rotors,have not as yet been researched in detail to any extent. The associated problems will remain to be a subject for aerodynamic research and development for a long time to come.;5.3.5 Turning the Rotor Out of the Wind;Turning the rotor out of the wind, or furling, as it is sometimes called, is actually the oldest method of limiting the aerodynamic power input of the rotor. It has been used both in the windmills of history and in American wind turbines. Even today, most of the small wind wheels still use this technique for limiting power.;Yawing the rotor with respect to the wind direction reduces the wind velocity component acting perpendicularly to the rotor plane or, in other words, it reduces the effective swept area with respect to the wind direction. Moreover, it leads to an earlier, premature flow separation at greater yaw angles and, in consequence, to a severe de crease in the rotor power coefficient (Fig. 5.31). Both these effects combined bring about an effective reduction in the aerodynamic rotor power input at yaw angles above about 15 to 20 degrees.