Apart from the NACA airfoils, the laminar airfoils of the German Stuttgarter Airfoil Catalog developed by F.X. Wortmann are of importance. These airfoils were devel oped primarily for glider planes, but they are also basically suitable for wind rotors 21. New airfoils, designed exclusively for wind turbines, have been developed in the US and in Sweden, for example the LS, SERI and FFA series. In recent years, the latest generation of airfoils used for wind turbines has been de veloped by the leading wind turbine or rotor blade manufacturers themselves. These airfoils have no longer been developed in accordance with the criteria and requirements of aircraft construction but exclusively with regard to optimizing the energy yield of a wind rotor (s. Chapt. 14.2). As requirements for the airfoils designed especially for wind rotors are named 22; a low drop in performance with increasing surface roughness  a maximum lifttodrag ratio  a stable lift coefficient  a limited lift coefficient in the outboard section of the blades in order to limit powerpeaks in the case of wind gusts Regardless of the last requirement some manufacturers use airfoils with relatively a large thickness and camber in the outboard section of the rotor blades. This increases lift, and thus the rotor performance, whilst the associated greater drag is considered to be a price worth paying. In addition, airfoils without extreme laminar characteristics are also used which retain their good airfoil performance over a wide range of angles of attack with a turbulent airflow. Considering these aspects, the demands made on the aerodynamic design by the wind power technology still differ from those made in air craft construction where the minimization of drag plays a central role.;Considered aerodynamically, all airfoils used today for fastrunning wind rotors belong to the class of laminar airfoils. The airfoils are characterized by a particularly low drag over a certain range of angels of attack. But their high performance is tied to particular prerequisites, especially to a geometrically precise and extremely smooth airfoil surface. If these conditions are not met, the airfoil performance becomes poorer than in the case of normal airfoils. Understanding the characteristics of laminar airfoils requires a little excursion into some basics of fluid mechanics. The flow around a body in an incom pressible viscous medium (air) can be divided into two areas which are dominated by different force effects. In the immediate vicinity of the bodys surface, the friction (viscosity) of the flow medium and the roughness of the bodys surface play a decisive role (Fig. 5.39). The flow is severely decelerated and is zero directly at the surface. This area of the passing flow is called Prandtls boundary layer or simply boundary layer. The flow in the boundary layer is governed by Reynolds law of similarity. The Reynold number speci fies the ratio of the frictional forces to the inertial forces of the flow in the flow. Outside the boundary layer, the flow is almost frictionless also in real media such as, e.g. air. The variation of flow is influenced by the shape of the body with respect to flow