5.6 EXISTING ROTOR BLADE DESIGNS 149which does not enable the requirements for the necessary strength and stiffness to be fulfilled. The existing thicknesstochord ratios of the airfoils used must, therefore, be chosen with consideration of stiffness and strength aspects. In the outboard section of the rotor blades, which is of special interest from the aerodynamic point of view, a thickness ratio of between 15 and 12  is usual. In the inner section, near the blade root, blade thick ness is increased. The blade planform in most cases is chamfered at the root so that the airfoil section can converge into the circular crosssection of the hub flange. The exception from this common layout are the Enercon blades for the reasons discussed in Chapter 5.5.2. The taper of the rotor blade planform varies considerably. Many manufacturers di verge strongly from the aerodynamically optimum taper. Less pointed tapering, that is a wider rotor blade in the outboard area towards the tip, improves the rotor power coeffi cient in the partialload range and increases the starting torque. Many manufacturers are paying increasing attention to the shaping of the blade tip, the edge curve. In some cases the rotor blades were retrofitted with aerodynamically more advantageous tip shapes in the hope of reducing the aerodynamic noise. The more recent rotor blades all have aerodynamically optimized blade tips. In practice, however, unconventional tip shapes have not really achieved any convincing successes. The standard airfoils of the NACA series still predominate. Whereas the airfoils of the earlier NACA 44 and 230 series are disappearing, the 63 and 64 series are still wide spread. Some German wind turbines are equipped with Wortmann airfoils, other turbines use LS1 airfoil or airfoils from SERI which are less sensitive in respect to soiling. The trend towards using special aerodynamic airfoils for wind rotors will be come more and more noticeable in the future. Innovative airfoils have been developed for some very recent turbines like Enercon and Vestas. Among the threebladed rotors, the relatively low design tipspeed ratio and corre spondingly lower aspect ratio of the older Danish wind turbines is noticeable (Fig. 5.58). The older stallcontrolled rotors required stiff blades which, with the material used, could only be realized with a low aspect ratio. The blades of the larger threebladed rotors have a higher aspect ratio, both for rotors with pitch control and for limiting power by stall control. In most cases the selected design tipspeed ratio is in the range of approximately 7 and thus near to the aerodynamic optimum. Another important criterion is the blade tip speed with respect to noise emission. The experience shows that tip speeds more than 70 ms cause noise problems. The large twobladed rotors of the earlier experimental turbines from the eighties ex hibited a comparatively large bandwidth of blade geometries (Fig. 5.59). The selected tipspeed ratio was between 8 and 10 and there was also a greater variation in taper. The solutions implemented for blade pitching differed. The rotor of the MOD2, which was implemented with a continuous centre section, made do with partial span control (s. Chapt. 5.3.1) whereas the MOD5A project, which was never completed, was provided with aileroncontrolled rotor blades. But it lies to considered, that all these different solutions have been realized with experimental units. The constraints of a cost effective series production did not appear at this time.