Some comments must be made regarding data acquisition and evaluation in connection with load measurements taken at wind turbines. As test objects, all newly devel oped prototypes are equipped with elaborate measuring and data acquisition systems. In the period of test operation, setting up and operating this measuring equipment takes up a large part of the development work. This applies both to assembling the hardware and to developing the software for data editing and evaluation. Figure 6.38 shows the basic setup of a data acquisition and evaluation system used for an early prototype of the ENERCON E40 wind turbine.;Using various sensors and transducers such as strain gauges, accelerometers, forceand displacement sensors, anemometers or instruments for measuring electric parame ters, the data acquisition system can record approximately 200 test points. The meas urement signals are amplified and sampled at a predetermined rate by a multiplexer. The analogue signals are then digitised and subsequently converted into a serial data stream by using PCM (pulse code modulation). PCM technology is generally required so that the data arriving in parallel from a large number of measuring points can be transferred using only one signal line. The timeconsuming statistical processing of the load data acquired requires extensive computer programs. A numerical method known as the rainflow method has proved to be especially helpful for this purpose.;An important point must also be raised with regard to the design of the data recordingand processing system. If possible, this system, used only for the test purposes, should be completely independent of the data processing system of the operational control system of the wind turbine. A functional link would give cause for grave concern for safety reasons.;2. Deutsches Institut fr Bautechnik (DIBt) Richtlinie fr Windenergieanlagen Einwirkungenund Standsicherheitsnachweise fr Turm und Grndung, Berlin, vol. 8 (March 2004);3. Abbott, H., Von Doenhoff, A.E. Theory of Wing Sections. Dover Publications Inc., New;4. Burton, T., et al. Wind Energy Handbook. Wiley, Chichester (2001) 5. Schepers, J.G., Snel, H. Investigation of dynamic inflow effects and implementation of an;4. Burton, T., et al. Wind Energy Handbook. Wiley, Chichester (2001) 5. Schepers, J.G., Snel, H. Investigation of dynamic inflow effects and implementation of anengineering method, ECNReport ECNC94107, Petten (1995);6. Schewe, G. Untersuchung der aerodynamischen Krfte, die auf stumpfe Profile bei groen;7. Snyder, M.H. Wakes Produced by a Single Element and Multiple Element Wind Turbine;8. Frost, W., Long, B.H., Turner, R.E. Engineering Handbook on the Atmospheric Environ;8. Frost, W., Long, B.H., Turner, R.E. Engineering Handbook on the Atmospheric Environmental Guidelines for Use in Wind Turbine Generator Development. NASA Technical Paper 1359 (1978);9. Garrad, A.D., Hassan, D. Taking the Guesswork out of Wind Turbine Design. In AWEA;10. Hu, G., Hau, E. Lastfalldefinition fr WKA60. MANReport (1986)