 Material procurement and storage,  Amortisation of tools and devices,  Quality assurance and control,  Contingency reserves for liabilities,  Insurance,  Administrative overhead,  Marketing,  RD,  Shipment and packing,  Commissioning,  Profit.  These cost factors which, considered individually, make up only a few percent of thecomponent costs, normally add up to a total percentage of between 40 and 60 . This high surcharge of soft costs on top of the hardware may surprise the reader unfamil iar with industrial cost pricing, but experience has shown that no manufacturers who, in their initial euphoria, believe that they can make it a lot cheaper, have been successful competitors in the long run. The sales price must contain sufficient reserves for new developments and possibly associated setbacks, more serious cases of liability which are not always covered by insurance, and much more. The following cost analyses are, therefore, based on the sum of the component costs and assume a surcharge of 50  in order to arrive at the exfactory sales price. The order of magnitude of these over heads has been confirmed by sampling the cost calculation of some seriesproduced wind turbines.;Most of the manufacturers of wind turbines still prefer the conventional construction with a transmission gearbox between the rotor and the generator. Being able to use largely standard components and the lower structural mass of the tower head in com parison with current gearless turbines with their heavy generator are considered as indispensible advantages with regard to manufacturing costs. Table 19.8 shows the componentrelated cost calculation for a typical turbine of the 2 MW class. In 2010, the sum of the component costs amounted to about 1.6 million US for a turbine of this size.;Table 19.7 shows that the wind turbines produced in relatively large series are produced today at comparatively low specific costs. Any further increase in numbers produced cannot be expected to result in a further significant decrease in costs. A further lowering of the manufacturing costs can, therefore, only be achieved primarily by means of an advance in the design. It is a different question whether the production costs can be lowered in a cheaper production environment. Actually the production costs are somewhat more expansive in the Euroarea. However in Asia, particularly in China and India, the production of wind turbines or similar products is up to 30 cheaper due to the lower labour costs.