 The second cause of damage lies in the individual faults of a component with respect tothe material used, the manufacture or also the assembly, something which can never be avoided completely statistically. Such individual faults cannot be avoided one hundred percent, by the quality control. However this type of damage normally is covered by mechanical breakage insurance.;In practice, it is often not possible to distinguish between these two causes in an individual case so that the costs for the repair are not infrequently divided between insurer and operator in a compromise. During the warranty period, the manufacturer will pay, naturally. After the end of the warranty period, a certain risk of repair costs will remain with the operator for the abovementioned reasons, even if he has taken out mechanical breakage insurance. If the damages are numerous and occur over a long period and are paid for by the insurance companies, their premiums will rise, thus lastly affecting the operator again.;In principle, the components and systems of a wind turbine are designed for a givenminimum service life (safelife design) which is at least twenty or thirty years. That is to say, the fatigue load spectra are specified, both with respect to the mean level and with respect to the number of load alternations for the dynamic load components, such that they cover the entire calculated service life. At the same time, the permissible material stresses are limited to this endurance limit which is synonymous with the fatigue strength in most materials. This design philosophy applies to all essential components with the exception of some small expendable parts such as transmission belts, filters etc.;For this reason, there is no mandatory requirement for replacement investments inwind turbines, a fact which is often misrepresented because practical experience teaches otherwise. On the other hand, it must be admitted that, regardless of the safelife design, certain doubts are justified in the case of at least some components of a wind turbine. Comprehensive damage statistics have, therefore, been collected in recent years on behalf of the insurance industry and technical scientific institutes have been commis sioned to conduct investigations into the causes of damage 10. In the investigations, the following main areas of frequent damage are identified;It is pointed out that damage occurs most frequently in gearboxes, followed by roller bearings and generators. In some areas mainly wind turbines with stall control are af fected. The most doubts are reported with regard to the safelife design of gearing and roller bearings and it is pointed out that, given the current state of the art, it cannot be assumed that the full service life of a wind turbine will be achieved without having to replace components in these areas.