Compared with other European countries, the economy of the Netherlands experienced an unrivalled boom in the 17th century, the countrys golden era. Holland became an international distribution centre for imported goods of all kinds. Windmills were now also used for other industrial processes. They ground dyes, spices, oilseeds and similar products. Holland achieved a monopoly in the export of sawed wood due to the deployment of large wood sawmills. Around 1700, there were about 1200 windmills in the Zaan region, north of Amsterdam, which supplied a complete industrial area with power 2. The economic significance of windmills continued to grow until the middle of the 19th century. In the middle of the century, the Netherlands had more than 9000 windmills and in Germany there were more than 20 000. For all of Europe, the total number was estimated at about 200 000 2. Then came the decline. With the introduction of steam engines, the number of windmills started to decrease. Even though the number of windmills started to decline distinctly in the second half of the century, it stood up quite well against its steamdriven competition. The last windmills were still being built right up into the 20th century. This fact is significant as it shows that the uncertain availability of wind power, as compared to steam, was obviously not considered such a grave disadvantage. The actual death of the windmill only began with the electrification of the rural areas. The connection of the last farm to the grid, frequently carried out with not inconsiderable pressure from the utility companies, made windmills an obsolete technology. When electricity came out of the wall socket, no one was interested in having to battle with workintensive windmilling and the maintenance of the mills which had become quite costly. In 1943 only 1400 windmills were counted in Holland. The decline in Germany was similar. The total of the windmills still more or less well preserved today comes to a bare 400 in Germany, to about 1000 in Holland and to 160 in Belgium 2. In the meantime, however, figures are moving up again. Historical windmills, which are increasingly protected today as cultural heritage monuments, are being restored and maintained in many places with the help of government funding.;The development of the various types of windmill from medieval times to the 17th century can hardly be considered the result of systematic research and development. The basis for advances in development and the diversification of windmill designs were improvements found more or less incidentally and an empirically founded evolution. The first fundamental ideas concerning the design of windwheels were raised in the Renaissance period. Italian artists and scientists contributed numerous suggestions for new windwheel shapes, even though windmill construction was of little significance there. Sketches of windmills by Leonardo da Vinci are known. Veranzo, in his book Machinae Novae, proposed various interesting designs of verticalaxis wind wheels 1. However, these ideas had no great practical significance. In accordance with the spirit of the time, playful or artistic aspects dominated such deliberations about mechanics to a great extent. It was not until the 17th and 18th century, when physicalmathematical thinking became more established, that windmill technology was systematically considered for the first time. The subject was first picked up by the emerging natural sciences. It was no