The first countries in which wind energy utilisation on land is already playing a role today are countries bordering on the North Sea and the Baltic Sea. This is, therefore, where the offshore technology for siting wind turbines is being primarily developed. Naturally, there are numerous other coastal areas throughout the world that are also suitable for the utilisation of wind energy but it is here that the initial phase of offshore wind energy utilisation is taking place. For example the West coast of the United States offers favourable conditions due to larger areas of shallow water (see Chapt. 19.5).;17.3.1 Oceanographic Conditions and Wind Resources;The offshore siting of wind turbines is initially determined by oceanographic and mete orological conditions. Depending on the available state of the art, they are decisive for the technical and economical feasibility of a project. Licensing procedures taking into consideration legal questions, ecological restrictions and competitive economic interests are subject to further considerations.;Water depth is the most important oceanographic parameter of influence. Resting on the continental shelf, both the North Sea and the Baltic Sea are very shallow in the coastal areas. The depth of the North Sea does not exceed 40 m. At short distances from the coast, a depth of 10 to 20 m is the norm. The tidal range must also be taken into consid eration, reaching maximum values of 4.5 m in some areas near the coast. However, there are the tidal shallows covering mudflats off the German NorthSea coast where wind turbines cannot be erected for ecological reasons. For this reason, large projects can only be implemented at long distances from land and thus also at greater depth of water (20 to 40 m) in the German NorthSea area. Figure 17.24 shows the increase in water depth with distance from the coast 14. The water depth of the Baltic Sea only reaches maximum values of approx. 20 m. In addition, there are no tidal shallows there so that the immediate coastal area, only a few meters deep, could be utilised. It is par ticularly the Danish offshore projects that profit from this situation. In the area of the Danish waters of the Baltic Sea, it is possible to implement even very large offshore wind farms in water depths of 10 to 15 m.;There is virtually no tide in the Baltic Sea but a much greater part of the seafreezes in winter. The heights of the waves to be expected are as significant as the water depth. The North Sea and the Baltic Sea differ considerably in this respect. Whereas in the Baltic Sea, the maximum wave height is about 7 m, a maximum wave height of 20 m must be expected in the North Sea (socalled wave of the century).