464 CHAPTER 11 CONTROL SYSTEMS AND OPERATIONAL SEQUENCEdrops to 15 of the grid voltage. There must be no shutdown. This requirement, occa sionally called low voltage ride thru, is a critical point with many wind turbines and is frequently not met by older turbines. Shorttime short circuits are relatively frequent with overhead transmission lines and are a consequence of dense snowfall, falling branches or contact with two wires by a bird.;It must be possible to operate the wind park with a power factor of between 0.975 (inductive) and 0.975 (capacitive) depending on the power system situation during activepower output. This requirement can be met in a relatively simple manner in the case of units which are connected to the grid via a frequency inverter.;Some years ago, the harmonics emanating from wind turbines were the subject offierce controversies with the power system operators. Due to the nonsinusoidal currents of the inverter, variablespeed units with frequency inverters generate harmonics in the grid. It is mainly the older, 6pulse inverters, no longer state of the art today, which have a large harmonic component. The more recent 12pulse inverters deliver a much smoother sinusoidal voltage. Applying the most developments of power electronics, for example pulewidthmodulated inverters, quasisinusoidal currents can also be generated by variablespeed units (s.a. Chapt. 10.4.1).;In principle, the new grid connection rules amount to the wind parks being capable to operate as grid support systems, at least under certain grid conditions. This demand is justified in view of the increasing share of wind power in the grid. The generation of power from wind is reaching an order of magnitude requiring the wind power capaci ties having to be included in the overall power generation planning of the public utili ties (see Chapt. 16.4).;The electrical characteristics of a wind turbine with respect to possible grid reactionsand its capability to meet the demands of the required grid connection rules are deter mined by means of a socalled grid compatibility check. This check has been gener ally used for some years, at least in Germany and is performed as part of the licensing of new wind turbines 9. During this check, the effects mentioned are measured and in addition the quality of the power output of the wind turbine is assessed. Also measured are the power peaks in the form of the instantaneous values (averaged over 8 grid peri ods) and the mean values over one and six minutes.