Renewable Energies Law in 2007. Eon will be responsible for the North Sea area and VattenfallDeutschland for the Baltic. According to the agreement made, these two companies will construct several large cable routes in the sea areas for connecting their own projects but also projects of other operators. This is intended to prevent every indi vidual wind park from needing and having to pay for their own cable route to the shore.;The construction and operation of offshore wind parks require logistical base stations directly at the coast. The storage of large components, which should not be underesti mated considering the dimensions of the turbines in question, and the preassembly of certain larger components must take place immediately close to the harbour before they are transported by ship. For the later operation, too, service facilities must be provided for material and personnel. There will be additional costs for the first large projects until this type of infrastructure has become permanently established on land.;The first offshore projects built after 1990 as small demonstration projects do not yet have the decisive features determining the costs of the commercial offshore wind parks (s. Chapt. 17.4.4). Nevertheless, the specific investment costs provided at least the first hints. The construction costs were within the range from 1900 to 2300 kW. A compari son for a corresponding site on land was carried out for the Vindeby project in Denmark. The result was that the investment costs were about twice as high, with the note that, on the basis of the experience gained, the costs could be lowered to about 1.5 times those of a comparable site on land 7.;The next generation of offshore projects which already came much closer to futurecommercial projects, especially with respect to the size of the wind turbines used, Yttre Stengrund (S), Utgrunden (S), and Middelgrunden (DK), exhibited a range of specific construction costs from more than 1600 kW (Utgrunden) to a relatively low 1200 kW for Middelgrunden. The reasons for this are the different site conditions. Utgrun den is located 14 km off the coast in a depth of 10 m of water whereas Middelgrunden is located in a depth of a few meters of water close to the shore. The first offshore projects exhibiting almost all the features of the future commercial wind parks were the Danish wind park Horns Rev with a total power of 160 MW, consisting of 60 Vestas 2MW turbines, and the wind park Nysted in the Danish Baltic. For these projects, specific investment costs of 1650 kW and 1480 kW, respectively, are quoted (Fig. 19.23). The specific investment costs were higher than those on land by approx. 50  using the wind parks installed on land in the same time. In the following years several offshore wind parks have been built in the British wa ters. Due to the increasing size and prices of the wind turbines but also caused by the