When rotor blades in laminated woodepoxy construction were introduced, they were found to have a lower weight in comparison with older, fibre glasspolyester blades. This is due to the great stiffness of wood and its excellent fatigue strength at a low spe cific weight. With respect to their mass, however, the wood composite rotor blades are no longer comparable to the most recent designs of fibre glassepoxy blades. The spe cific mass is approx. 1.5 kgm.;Rotor blade technology will continue to exert a special influence on the further development of wind turbines also in the next few years. It is a distinct possibility that new approaches must be found for the coming rotors with diameters of more than 120 m. The problems of transportation and assembly alone will set new tasks to be solved by the designers. Above a certain size, the blades can no longer be fabricated and trans ported in one piece which presents new problems, for example with respect to the join ing techniques used on the individual components.;Rotors having a fixed blade pitch angle and stalllimited power output must have an aerodynamically acting capability of preventing the rotor from running away in the event of a failure of the generator torque, for example due to a grid outage. This cannot be handled by the mechanical rotor brake on the rotor shaft, at least in large units. The rotor can only be decelerated by extendible drag surfaces on the rotor blades (s. Chapt. 5.3.2).;The most common solution are adjustable blade tips which are rotated by 90 beforebraking the rotor (Fig. 8.28). A blade tip adjustment is triggered by a flyweight and a loaded spring. The adjustment requires a certain amount of experience and the triggering threshold is in the range of about 120  of the nominal rotor speed.;In older wind turbines, this mechanical system worked without any possibility beingprovided for resetting it. The result was that in the case of a grid outage, an entire wind park was brought to a standstill by the aerodynamic blade tip brakes and then every blade tip had to be reset again manually to its normal position.;To avoid this timeconsuming restarting of the wind turbines, the more recent rotorblades of stallcontrolled systems are equipped with an hydraulic resetting system (Fig. 8.29). However, this makes the structural complexity of rotors with a fixed blade pitch angle as great as that for rotors with blade pitch control and it also considerably in creases the weight of the rotor blades.;Due to the structural complexity in the critical outside area of the rotor blade, associated with the fact that the load application point is also poor during braking, this type of construction, i.e. of rotor blades with aerodynamic tip brakes, becomes problematic for very large rotors. For this reason, the advocates of the principle of using stall for limiting power are now changing over to an active stall control in their large systems in which the entire rotor blade can be adjusted when braking becomes necessary (BONUS, NEG Micon) (s. Chapt. 5.3.3). However, this raises the question whether this effort still brings advantages in comparison with blade pitch control (s.a. Chapt. 5.3.3).