In the past, wind data were measured and evaluated almost exclusively from a meteoro logical point of view. However, these data are not sufficient when one is considering the commercial exploitation of wind resources by means of wind turbines. The earlier me teorological data do not provide much detailed information about the inner case in wind speed with height up to 150 m or the local wind conditions of a particular terrain. It is only in the past three decades that extensive wind measurements have been carried out with consideration of the particular aspects relating to the use of wind turbines. In the meantime, fullcoverage wind data are available in the countries in which wind energy utilisation is widespread. A reliable database is provided mainly by the longterm evaluation of the energy supply from existing wind turbines.;Nevertheless, the determination of the wind conditions at the intended site of thewind turbines remains an important task that cannot be solved by means of the available largescale wind maps alone. Providing reliable wind data must, therefore, be the first step in any planning for the use of wind turbines. Since it is impossible to carry out new, longterm measurements in either case, critical apriori verification of existing data is of particular importance. After that, a wind appraisal is obtained with the aid of the avail able semiempirical methods.;Moreover, the value of verbal information provided by the local population and ofnatural indicators should not be underestimated. Trees clearly growing at an angle, for example, are a reliable indicator of high mean wind speeds. A knowledge of the charac teristics of the wind and of some of the laws governing its behaviour with respect to its utilisation is indispensable for a successfully planning of wind energy projects.;The movement of air masses in the atmosphere is perceived as wind and has various causes. The first and most important of these is the heating of the earth by the sun. Wind energy utilisation is, therefore, an indirect form of solar energy utilisation. The radiation from the sun is absorbed by the earths surface and then returned to the atmosphere above. Since the earths surface is not homogeneous (land, water, desert, forest, etc.),