The frequency limits are the control criteria for switching the pumps on or off. As thewind speed increases, the blade pitch control of the wind turbine helps to maintain the upper frequency limit. If the wind speed is lower so that the power provided by the wind turbine is below the maximum power demand of the pumps, there will be operating points within the variable frequency range which correspond to a power equilibrium between wind turbine and pumps. In this range, the blade pitch control of the wind tur bine is not active. In principle, the wind pump system can start up without an auxiliary power source, since the wind turbine is started by a batterypowered hydraulic control system and accelerates up to a generator speed where the generator voltage guarantees the supply of the electronic control system. The dynamic interaction between the wind turbines variable power output and the power consumption of the water pumps requires a finely tuned control system and load management, if severe power losses are to be avoided.;Naturally, the pumping capacity of the wind pump system described depends on thewind regime and the delivery head. For a site with a mean annual wind speed of 5.5 ms at 10 m wind height and a delivery head of 50 m, the water volume pumped annually amounts to approximately 130000 m. As soon as the investment costs, which are still too high at present, can be lowered via higher production numbers, winddriven water pumps of this or similar concepts are projected to have very good chances of being used widely in the Third World.;Quite a few experts predict that there will be a catastrophic world shortage of drinking water long before there will be a real energy crisis. This prediction is not so farfetched for some Third World countries and it may even have become reality already in some regions. The only global solution seems to be the utilisation of sea water for drinking water.;Technical methods of seawater desalination for use on board ships were developedas early as the 20th century. On land, seawater desalination plants for supplying drink ing water have only been in use for some decades. Desalination processes based either on distillation or on the separation of water and salt by semipermeable membranes, have achieved practical significance.;Distillation provides for almost complete desalination of sea water. The specific energy requirement is largely independent of the salt concentration. The processes mainly require thermal energy. Currently, distillation plants using the socalled multistage flash evaporation process, with a daily output of drinking water of 30 000 to 40 000 m are being built. The power requirement of a plant of this size is approximately 150 Megawatts.;Lately, the membrane methods, electro dialysis and reverse osmosis, are increasinglybeing used. With the ready availability of modern membrane materials, interest has focused particularly on reverse osmosis (RO). It is based on the different permeability of semipermeable membranes for salt and water. The structure of a reverse osmosis plant resembles an osmotic cell. A receptacle contains a saltwater cell and a freshwater cell separated by a membrane (polyamide or cellulose acetate). Salt water is continu ously fed into this cell with a pressure higher than the osmotic pressure of the saline solution. Part of the water diffuses through the membrane into the freshwater cell and