18.2 TECHNICAL LAYOUT OF WIND PARK INSTALLATIONS 725consider the wind farm as one unit and make certain demands of it and not of the indi vidual turbines (s.a. Chapt. 11.7.2). Apart from the other economic and organisational aspects, the implementation of a wind farm, therefore, also requires overall technical planning.;The layout and design of wind farm installations is an important part of wind powerengineering. This task  unfortunately  cannot be solved by technical optimisation alone, because it is strongly associated with economic, legal, environmental and social aspects. Nevertheless the optimal technical concept should be used as a guideline to be followed as closely as possible.;When dealing with the installation of a number of wind turbines concentrated in an array, the first technical problem which arises is the issue of spacing. Apart from the fact that in the realworld, many factors must be considered when determining the geometry of the array  in many cases the topography of the terrain will be the decisive factor  this ques tion will first be considered from an aerodynamic point of view to avoid unjustifiably high power losses due to mutual turbine shielding. A minimum clearance between the wind turbines must be guaranteed, otherwise power losses will be so high that the wind farm will operate uneconomically from the start.;The problem of aerodynamic interference of wind turbines in a geometry array was first examined in the US when the first wind farms were being built. The power loss from aero dynamic causes due to the mutual shading of the turbine is expressed as the socalled aerodynamic array efficiency. It is defined as the energy yield of the entire wind farm in relation to the sum total of the energy yield which would be delivered if the wind turbines were operating as single units and without interference. On a real site, the array efficiency is always less than 100 , as the mutual aerodynamic interference is noticeable in a dis tance of up to 20 rotor diameters or more.;This array efficiency must be determined for a given array geometry, or the geometric arrangement of the array must be chosen such that the array efficiency of the wind farm is as high as possible. The array efficiency can be determined with the aid of theo retical models which have a similar structure to the rotor power calculation described in Chapter 5.1, but which additionally include the mutual interference of the rotor wake (s. Chapt. 5.4).;The power output of a single wind turbine can be calculated without knowing thewind direction characteristics of the site. Since the wind turbine is yawed into the wind, the power output is only dependent on the wind speed. The power output of an array of turbines, however, behaves quite differently. Depending on the wind direction, the dis tances of the individual wind turbines both in the direction of the wind and at an angle to the wind will differ, so that losses caused by shading can be smaller or greater. In addition to the frequency distribution of the wind speed, the calculation of the energy