Table 6.21. Design drivers for the main wind turbine components 14;In principle, the structural dimensioning of wind turbines is treated mathematicallyby the same methods as those known also from other fields of technology. There are no special features with regard to the materials used. The treatment of highly loaded, fibre reinforced composite materials as used for rotor blades, for example, is state of the art today.;Calculating the breaking strength or the stability limits in the case of single, nonrecurring loading is a traditional task related to strength. They are considered as quasi static load cases and can therefore be treated by using comparatively simple calculation methods. They do not, therefore, require any further explanations in this book. The issue of fatigue strength represents another problem entirely, which requires windturbine specific knowledge and will, therefore, be discussed in more detail in the next chapter. The material fatigue due to persistent, alternating loads is determined by two decisive factors the external loads acting on the system within the predetermined life cycle and the socalled dynamic response characteristic of the structure with respect to the alter nating external conditions. The resultant structural dynamics have a great influence on the fatigue strength. Basically, the following applies in a stiff system, all unsteady loads, i.e. the loads changing with time, in particular, must be sustained by the structure, with the consequence of rapid material fatigue. In a soft, elastic system, the alternating loads cause movements of the components and are thus absorbed by the inertial forces of the accelerated masses, the material fatigue being much less under these conditions. Calculating fatigue strength in wind turbines presents special requirements for two rea sons With a design life of 20 years, the alternating loads, for example the cyclic bending stress in the rotor blades, resulting from their dead weight during the rotation of the rotor, but also alternating stochastic loads from the turbulence of the wind, lead to ex traordinarily high cyclic load numbers. In comparison with other systems, these are at their upper limit (Fig. 6.22). For some materials such as, for example, fibrereinforced composite materials, but also for the welded seams of steel structures, cyclic load