almost any variant but the economic optimum is only achieved by appropriately match ing the selected tower design to the requirements set. This shows clearly that, although the tower of a wind turbine can be seen as a conventional structure when considered by itself, its design also requires a considerable amount of understanding of the overall sys tem and its application. Apart from these functional aspects, it should not be overlooked that the tower, even more so than the nacelle, determines the outward appearance of a wind turbine. Due attention should, therefore, be accorded aesthetics, even if this implies some additional costs.;The oldest types of wind turbines, the windmills, didnt have towers but millhouses. These were low in height in relation to the rotor diameter and of voluminous construc tion in accordance with their function as a work space, thus also providing for the nec essary stiffness. Soon, however, the advantage of increased height was recognised and the millhouses became more slender and more towerlike. But it is only in modernday constructions, first in the small American wind turbines and then later in the first power generating wind power stations, that masts or towers were used, the sole function of which lay in supporting the rotor and the mechanical components of the tower head. As a consequence of this development, designs and materials for towers increased in vari ety. Steel and concrete took the place of the wood construction of the millhouses. In the early years of the development of modern wind energy technology, the most varied tower designs were tried out and tested but in the course of time, the range has been narrowed down to freestanding designs, mainly of steel and more rarely of concrete.;The simplest method of building high and stiff tower constructions is as a three dimensional truss, socalled lattice or truss towers. Lattice towers were, therefore, the preferred design of the first experimental turbines and in the early years also for smaller commercial turbines (Fig. 12.1). More or less, they disappeared after the appearance of the free standing steel tube towers. Today, the lattice tower has again become an alter native to the tubularsteel tower in the case of the very high towers required for large turbines sited in inland regions.;In the thirties, steelreinforced concrete towers were used for the socalled Aeromotors in Denmark (Chapt. 2.1). These towers were also characteristic of the earlier large ex perimental Danish turbines (Fig. 12.2). Later, steel towers became dominant also in the commercial turbines in Denmark. Concrete towers have recently gained favour again for tower heights of more than 100 m. Today particularly the prefabricated concrete construc tion is a preferred solution for high towers.