16.1.1 Autonomous Power Supply  Storage Problems;A power supply in an isolated situation can only meet presentday requirements if a certain degree of security of supply is guaranteed. To put it more simply Even if the wind does not blow, the lights must not go out. If wind is the sole source of energy, a means of energy storage is imperative.;All efforts in striving for an autonomous energy supply system with the aid of renewable energy sources always end up with the problem of energy storage. The search for costeffective energy storage is a theme pervading the whole range of these technologies. To exaggerate, one might say that as soon as an economically viable solution of storing energy has been found, all energy problems concerning the utilisation of renewable en ergy sources, i.e. with solar energy, can be solved. However, there is no such technology of energy storage in existence at present. All storage methods which can be used in prac tice today have a very limited storage capacity and are very expensive. Moreover, they require complex conversion systems, as the energy is mostly stored in a form which is not suitable for the end user.;Attempting to provide an overview of all possible methods of energy storage wouldbe useless. The range of methods, patents and ideas relating to this subject is almost inexhaustible. However, there are some energy storage methods which are frequently discussed in connection with wind energy utilisation and these will be described in greater detail here.;A wind turbine is a twofold energy conversion system Firstly, the rotor converts thekinetic energy of the moving air into mechanical energy, and secondly, the electrical generator converts the latter into electrical energy. There are, therefore, basically two ways of tackling the problem of energy storage. For one, it may be attempted to store the mechanical energy directly, which has the advantage of not requiring any further highloss energy conversion. However, the choice of mechanical energy storage meth ods is narrow.;It may be possible to store greater amounts of mechanical energy in flywheels. Fly wheels have been tested intensively in the eighties 1. New technologies such as high speed flywheel rotors made of fibrereinforced composite material, suspended magnetically in a vacuum and thus rotating virtually frictionlessly, gave rise to great hopes. Flywheels with a very high energy density, capable of absorbing large amounts of energy and of storing this energy over long periods of time virtually without any losses, are thus technologically feasible. However, the technical implementation of this technology proved to be far more difficult than expected, which effectively removes this possibility from present consideration.