20.5 THE EFFECT OF WIND ENERGY UTILISATION ON EMPLOYMENT 867recovery factor of 70 is achieved. Compared to conventional power plants, this value is very good. Relevant literature indicates a recovery value of 20 to 30 for conventional power plants 5.;An important question to be asked today in the context of every new technology is its effect on employment. The worry that the introduction of a new technology will turn into a jobkiller or the hope that it will create new jobs concerns an everincreasing number of people. Therefore the effect of wind energy utilisation on employment has been investigated in numerous studies. In Germany the Federal German Wind Energy Association (BWE  Bundesverband Windenergie), in collaboration with the Associa tion of German Engine and Plant Manufacturers (VDMA  Verband Deutscher Maschi nen und Anlagenbauer) is creating socalled job statistics for the wind energy industry at certain time intervals 6. According to these statistics, the jobs are distrib uted over the fields;The jobs created directly at the wind turbine manufacturers can be estimated using acharacteristic number from mechanicalengineering manufacturing of approx. 250,000 to 200,000 US turnover per job. The jobs for the total industrial field of manufacturers and suppliers amount to a characteristic number of 12 employees per 1 Mio US turn over. The employmentrelated proportion of the OM costs is specified as approx. 40 50 US per kilowatt installed power for wind turbines on land and 80100 USKW for offshore installations.;Other characteristic numbers relate directly to the produced megawatt. Landbasedwind turbines with an investment of 1.82.0 Mio US generate about 1015 jobs per MW in Europe. For one megawatt offshore power with investment costs of 3.5 Mio US the number is approx. 39 jobs in the US 3.;Some examples illustrate the effect. In Germany for example the turnover of windenergy equipment was 8,500 Mio  in 2008. Taking the number of 200,000  per job, the generated employment was about 42,500 jobs. This corresponds to the statistics of the industrial associations quite well. In Denmark the turnover was 5,700 Mio  corre sponding to 28,500 persons. In the US the possibilities for offshore wind energy utilisa tion in the coastal waters of Virginia has been evaluated 3. A capacity of 3,200 MW has been identified. Assuming a building rate of 160 MW per year the generated em ployment is supported with 6,200 jobs over a period of at least twenty years.;It should be noted in this context that the production of wind turbines, even of verylarge wind turbines, does not mean employment for heavy industry only. Apart from a few aspects in research and development, wind turbines are not largescale hightech products like nuclear power plants or aircraft. Neither are they doityourself kits