electrification of motor traffic, a very large battery capacity will become available. The idea is to leave the car batteries connected to the grid when the vehicles are not in use (statistically for more than 90 of the battery life) and to use them also as storage de vices for feeding energy back into the grid. If this would prove to be successful, a very large storage capacity would be available. This would make it possible to compensate for the irregular feeding of energy, preferably derived from wind energy, into the grid. Naturally, this is associated with restrictions in the times when the cars are available and the driversowners should be offered appropriately favourable feedin tariffs.;For the notsodistant future, the advancing development of the fuel cells gives rise to new hopes for a suitable longterm storage device. In principle, fuel cells can be oper ated with a number of different fuels including also hydrogen.;The electrolytic generation of hydrogen provides an indirect possibility of storing energy which is increasingly coming into the focus of interest and also of research in con nection with solar energy and particularly with photovoltaic. It is highly probable that hydrogen will become an important element in the energy and traffic technology of the future as a storage medium and  which may be even more significant  as an alterna tive, environmentally friendly fuel for vehicles. Naturally, the electrical energy gener ated by wind turbines can also be used to produce hydrogen.;Hydrogen can either be stored unpressurised at low temperatures, chemically adsorbed into a suitable medium or pressurised as a gas. It is an excellent, environmentally benign fuel and propellant the use of which is not restricted to the generation of electric ity, but extends to numerous other applications. There in lies the special appeal of this energystorage method, which can be technically implemented without problems. Un fortunately, however, the electrolytic production of hydrogen and its storage has to date not yet achieved a high enough level of economy for largescale applications. The pro duction of one standard cubic meter of hydrogen requires an energy input of approxi mately 4 to 5 kWh. As wind power can, by no means, be captured free of charge, it is easy to see how economical this process would be. The not inconsiderable costs of the storage technology required must also be included.;Nevertheless, the production and storage of hydrogen with the aid of solar technology will be an important technology for the future. In particular the use of wind energy is discussed for this purpose. A variety of test installations already exists at different places, regardless of the present economical situation.;The significance of regenerative energy sources will always remain a peripheral issue without the possibility of economic longterm energy storage and thus also of transporting energy from its generating site to the consumer without the need for power lines. Hence, solarhydrogen technology represents less of an inevitable technological symbiosis, but rather a comprehensive energy option 5. From the standpoint of wind energy, all that remains is to wait for the development of hydrogen technology until an economical application becomes feasible. When this is the case, new perspectives will also open up for wind energy.