When considering the negative effects of conventional fuels on the environment and their limited availability, or the safety questions associated with the use of nuclear en ergy, renewable energies must not be looked at from an economic point of view only. However, this does not mean that the utilisation of renewable energy sources makes sense at any price. Exorbitant energy prices are not acceptable to industry or to the economy in general. Profitability from a business management point of view and profit ability for the national economy are, however, two different aspects entirely.;Regardless of any macroeconomic significance, it is the duty of an operator operating as a business, and also his right, to demand cost effectiveness. However, the business results are also influenced by numerous macroeconomic conditions. Particu larly in energy generation, there are political conditions which determine to a large extent what proportion of the costs is passed onto the community as a whole and which costs really enter into the balance sheet of the energy producer. These factors affect both the energy prices and the competitiveness of the various energy sources.;Economic viability in the sense of being cost effective for the investor, therefore,always means whether or not the system is cost effective within the framework pro vided by the relevant energy policy. Whether this framework is indeed concerned with the interest of the public is a different question. This is a political task and not the re sponsibility of an operator working as a business. The latter can only be economically active under the existing macroeconomic conditions.;The current economic situation of wind energy has two faces. On the one hand,there is its application at the consumer end. Measured against the consumer prices of electrical energy, not only for the end user, but also for communal or regional power distributors, the generation of electricity from wind energy is economical, provided that the site has appropriate wind conditions.;On the other hand, there is the electricity generation by the utilities. In this case, theeconomic standard is set by the power generation costs of the large power plants. From the standpoint of the large utilities, these much more restrictive economic conditions did not yet allow a profitable utilisation of wind energy even just a few years ago. However, the situation has changed in recent years with the rising power generation costs, espe cially if the power is generated by power stations newly to be built. This will apply,