The wind turbine was operated on Heligoland from 1988 to 1995. However, thepractical experience gained was not satisfactory. The overall load management of the islands grid gave preference to the diesel generators to such an extent that the wind turbine could not be used to its full potential. The wind turbine itself was damaged con siderably two times by lightning strikes so that the local utility removed the turbine from operation in 1995 and had it dismantled not much later.;Designing winddiesel systems or integrating a wind turbine into an already existingsmall grid creates a number of systemrelated problems. Firstly there is the question of the wind turbines maximum permissible power, measured as the installed power of the diesel units, or of the grid load. For reasons of energy economy, the largest possible wind turbines will be given preference in most cases. However, the operational interac tion between diesel unit and wind turbine limits the wind power in the grid.;The higher the proportion of wind power in the grid, the greater the influence of thewind turbine on the grid frequency, taking into consideration the instantaneous conditions. It is obvious that the control system of the wind turbine plays a decisive role in this con text. A wind turbine with blade pitch control can itself contribute to the frequency stabil ity, thus making it possible to achieve a higher proportion of wind power content than with a turbine without blade pitch control, which must be controlled completely by the grid frequency. The second factor limiting the size of a wind turbine has to do with the behaviour of the diesel generator at partial load. If diesel engines are run at less than ap proximately 25  of their rated power, their efficiency drops sharply, resulting in an in crease in the specific fuel consumption.;Some further problems arise with regard to the operational sequence control. In principle, alternating operation of diesel generator and wind turbine is possible but is diffi cult to implement, as, in this case, the grid frequency must be maintained by the wind turbine alone from time to time. In a simpler case, the wind turbine will be run only in parallel with the diesel generator the power of which is restricted in dependence on the power input by the wind turbine. Operating the wind turbine and diesel unit in parallel also has the advantage that the diesel unit, which is usually equipped with a synchro nous generator, can control the grid frequency as well as provide the excitation current for the wind turbine. The latter can then be equipped with the usual induction generator.;The technical problems of isolated grids are simplified if several diesel units areavailable. This is usually the case, anyway, for reasons of redundancy. It permits indi vidual units to be switched on and off instead of having to drastically reduce power, which is undesirable. It must be ensured, though, that excessively frequent warmup phases of the diesel engines should be avoided, as they cause high fuel consumption. The frequently voiced concern that increased nonsteady operation of a diesel engine in combination with a wind turbine could unfavourably affect fuel consumption has not been confirmed. Compared with cold runs, these influences proved to be negligible 18.;Figure 16.12 shows the technical concept of a winddiesel system which also meetsmore complex requirements. The system consists of a number of small wind turbines which are equipped with electrohydraulic bladepitch control. The turbines are fitted with induction generators. The synchronous generator of the diesel unit is connected to the engine via a switchable clutch. In addition, there is a storage battery which can be charged and discharged by an inverter or rectifier.