446 CHAPTER 11 CONTROL SYSTEMS AND OPERATIONAL SEQUENCEresponse even though the adjustment of the controllers is not without problems as far as the stability over the entire range of wind speeds is concerned. Power instabilities can occur, particularly at higher wind speeds. For smaller turbines, however, this simplified structure is often sufficient (Fig. 11.11).;When synchronous generators are used, the dynamic behaviour is determined by the speed coupling to the grid frequency being absolutely fixed. The energy captured from the wind must be processed directly by the generator and creates a certain load angle depending on the state of excitation. If the load angle exceeds its maximum value of approximately 90 degrees, the generator loses synchronisation and must be taken off the grid. Moreover, the undamped characteristic of the synchronous generator means that the systems potential for vibration can become a problem.;For reasons of stability, therefore, it must be ensured that in the stationary condition,the mechanical driving torque of the generator has a large enough safety margin with respect to the electrical pullout torque. In addition, the pullout torque can be increased by increasing the excitation voltage, thus also improving the stability. At least for large turbines, voltage and reactive power control makes technical sense and may even be necessary. The control structure of a wind turbine with a synchronous generator, meet ing the requirements of direct grid coupling as well as of isolated operation, is shown in Figure 11.12.;The upper section of the diagram shows the speed and activepower control with theblade pitch angle as actuating variable. The lower section shows the current or reactive power control with the excitation voltage as actuating variable. As the control proc esses in the electrical system occur much faster than the mechanical actuating move ments, the two control systems can be considered as being largely decoupled as far as the dynamics are concerned.;The entire structure for speed and activepower output control consists of a speedcontrol loop, with secondary control loops for activepower output, blade pitch and pitching rate. The speed controller with a nominal speed ns which lies several percent above the grid frequency fN, is only used in isolated operation.;When operated on the grid, the generator frequency is controlled by the grid, the actual speed ni remains constant and, because ni  ns is maintained, the output of the inte grating speed controller tends towards the upper limit. This corresponds to the required maximum activepower output PWS, preset by the sequence controller as reference value, and is maintained by the blade pitch system if the wind speed is high enough. If the wind speed is not high enough, the set point value of the pitch angle is set to the selected constant blade pitch angle for partial load operation. During idling, i.e. without the rotor speed being governed by the grid frequency, the turbine accelerates up to the ns speed and the speed controller also becomes active. By inserting reactive current compensation, a power output coupled to the grid frequency can be obtained which corresponds to normal power station control.