19.2 SPECIFIC COSTS AND REFERENCE PARAMETERS 793exfactory prices of the first smaller commercial wind turbines from series production at that time.;These extraordinarily high costs of the first large wind turbines were the subject of conflicting discussions about the future prospects of this technology. It was not until the smaller commercial wind turbines had come along that the general assertions about the costs of power generated from wind energy based on the costs of these experimental turbines could be refuted. Much greater importance had to be accorded to the argument that, for physical and technical reasons, the technical complexity of a wind turbine would increase with in creasing wind turbine size to such a degree that large wind turbines would on principle remain more uneconomic than smaller turbines, even after having achieved commercial development and production status (Chapt. 19.4.1). This is an argument which had to be seriously considered.;To start with, fundamental considerations showed that, for physical reasons, unfavourablescaling effects allow the specific structural masses of wind turbines to become more and more unfavourable with increasing size. In the simplest case, it was argued that, volume related, the structural masses increase with the third power of the dimensions whereas the energy delivery only increases with the square of the rotor diameter and, therefore, the eco nomics would become decrease with increasing size.;In fact, this argument cannot be dismissed completely even though the conditions aremore complex when scaling up. Firstly it must be noted that scaling rules are applica ble only if the technical design and construction are retained unchanged and only the dimensions change. However, this assumption does not correspond to practical experi ence. Increasing dimensions allow and demand altered design solutions, at least in de tail. The constructional refinement allows unfavourable scaling effects to be partly compensated for. In addition, the loading and stress situation differs very greatly for the components of a wind turbine. The example of the rotor blades shows clearly that not all the external forces and torques increase with the third power of the rotor diameter with increasing dimensions. This law only applies to the forces and torques arising from the dead weight of the rotor blades (Table 19.1).;It is even more important to look at the material stresses. The increasing forces andtorques are also confronted by crosssectional areas increasing with the square of the area so that with forces also increasing with the square of their value, the resultant mate rial stresses do not show any dependence on the size of the object. It is only the forces and torques increasing with the cube of their value from the dead weight which generate material stresses rising linearly with the rotor diameter. This influence becomes mixed in with the other dependences corresponding to the complex loading situation so that the composite scaling parameter is less. Since the structural mass is directly related to the material stress  the material remaining the same  the increase in structural mass must be expected to be in the same ratio.;These relationships show clearly that, with increasing size, the dead weight of the components, especially of the rotor blades, is responsible for the mandatory increase in material used, and thus of the specific structural mass in order to withstand the stress. Put in simple terms With increasing size any structure will collapse under its own weight at some point in time. Taken by itself, this simple finding is trivial with respect to the external state. However, the preexisting adverse effects on the changes in the specific structural masses with increasing size is less obvious.