Pumping water is one of the most ancient applications of wind power. From the last decades of the nineteenth century until today, the American (and Australian) wind tur bine with its mechanically driven piston pump has become the second symbol for the utilisation of wind energy, next to the European windmill. This technology is particu larly wellsuited to areas with moderate wind speeds and for the pumping of small amounts of water from a great depth, primarily for providing drinking water. For this application, the American wind pump has remained virtually unbeatable in its simplicity and reliability.;However, modern irrigation technology has different requirements, especially in theagriculture of many developing countries. Here, large amounts of water are needed to be pumped, often from shallow depths. Moreover, it is frequently not possible to locate wind turbine and water pump in the same place. Under these circumstances, a conven tional wind turbine for driving electrical water pumps becomes increasingly attractive, even though this technology is far more complicated. In many cases, the wind turbine is again set up as a hybrid system in combination with a diesel generator, or is integrated into an existing system. Its economic efficiency must then derive from the fuel saved in the diesel set.;In principle, the wind turbine can be operated in combination with a piston pump or acentrifugal pump. Piston pumps have a high efficiency of approximately 80 to 90 , even at reduced rotational speeds. The efficiency of centrifugal pumps is lower, ap proximately 50 to 75 , and it drops rapidly with decreasing speed. The pumping char acteristics and thus power consumption relative to speed also differ greatly. Piston pumps raise a volume flow which is proportional to the rotational speed and almost independent of the delivery head, i.e. the depth of the well. Moreover, a certain delivery head requires a minimum rotational speed.;A comparison of the operating characteristics of the two types of pumps with thepower characteristic of a highspeed wind turbine shows that the operating characteris tics of the water pump can be matched more easily to the power characteristics of a wind rotor if it is a centrifugal pump (Fig. 16.7). The simple reason is that the character istics of the two fluid flow machines, wind rotor and centrifugal pump, are a better match 11. Although the electrical transmission of power from wind turbine to water pump involves a twofold energy conversion, with corresponding losses of altogether about 30 , this loss is more than compensated for in many cases by the optimal siting of the wind turbine.;A modern concept of a windpump system is shown in Figure 16.8. An Aeroman;A modern concept of a windpump system is shown in Figure 16.8. An Aeromanwind turbine is equipped with a synchronous generator of 14 kVA and supplies the two submerged electric pumps in the well via a threephase lowvoltage line. Depending on the wind power on offer, the electric control system switches on one or both pumps and thus roughly adapts pump power consumption to the available wind power. The pumps operate at the frequency dictated by the wind turbines synchronous generator. This frequency varies between 40 and 50 Hz, with the power consumption of the pumps ranging from 50 to 100  of the rated power. In 1985 a similar installation was installed at an oasis in the Egyptian dessert and tested for some years 12.