It is difficult to differentiate between the tower head masses in accordance with otherdesign features such as drive train design, or type of power control. The trend shows that older turbines with directly driven, low speed generator take up the upper limit of the bandwidth. More obvious is the effect of structural flexibility on the specific weight. The flexible and light weight designs of Vestas come below the indicated area. But also earlier turbines with active stall control show very favourable values of specific tower head weight (NEGMVestas NM92). The best values are achieved by the latest genera tion of wind turbines with directdriven permanentmagnet generators (Vensys 2.5, Siemens 3.0).;The earlier large twobladed turbines are difficult to evaluate. On the one hand, they had unfavourable weight characteristics such as heavy steel rotor blades on the MOD1 and WTS75. On the other hand, some of these turbines had loadcarrying nacelle structures, which are favourable with respect to the weight. In any case, their towerhead mass was markedly below that of the large threebladed wind turbines of the day. The twobladed wind turbines with teetering hubs (MOD2, MOD5B, Growian) provided the best basis for low specific structural masses. Even the largest planned wind turbine to date, the MOD5A project, remained below 40 kgm.;The few more recent twobladed wind turbines like the Nordic 1 MW and the 1 MWdesign of the French Vergnet have specific towerhead weights of approx. 20 kgm in the range of the threebladed turbines. The prototype of the very recent twoblade de sign, the ChineseGerman Aerodyn SCD with a 100 m rotor and a rated power of 3 MW, achieves a remarkable value of only 15 kgm (Fig. 19.5). According to the de signer the potential for further weight reduction is not yet fully exploited.;Compared to the twobladed turbines with teetering hubs, the weight characteristics of the earlier experimental singlebladed wind turbines of the Monopteros series were not any better. In addition, this concept, with its high tipspeed ratio and the associated noise problems was found to be unsuitable for practical application.;If the statistical plot of the towerhead masses, as shown in Figure 19.6 is analysed from these points of view, an empirically based tendency can be indicated for the more recent threebladed turbines and for the few existing twobladed turbines. The absolute mass of the tower head increases with the power of 2.6 to 2.7 in dependence on the rotor diame ter. The specific overall mass thus follows the following growth function