20.6 MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RENEWABLE ENERGIES 869the risk of a catastrophe for humanity, will always be rejected by a part of the population, despite all safety precautions. And even if the technical safety measures were as perfect as has always been maintained by its supporters, the risk factor of human error will always remain. In order to eliminate this risk, for example in times of political instability, the entire energy cycle must be kept under surveillance. Many see in this an inevitable route to a po lice state. In other words, after strategic independence and economic efficiency, environ mental compatibility and social compatibility are also aspects which must play a role in formulating the contemporary political boundary conditions for the energy supply.;And what about the demand for inexpensive energy? Are not low energy costs the precondition for the economic power of an industrialised country? The question is what is cheap for whom? Surely not for the utilities alone, acting under specific political con ditions. This would mean confusing cause and effect. Ultimately, it is only the value for money which can be the valid measure, considering all economical and ecological ef fects. This requirement must be met by all forms of energy supply including the utilisation of regenerative energy sources.;If all costrelated factors are included in the energy supplied, starting with the research about the processing of the fuel, e.g. coal mining, the investment costs of power plants, fuel costs, waste disposal and, not least, consequential ecological dam age as well as expenses for public safety, the assessment of the competing primary energy sources becomes a very difficult issue to address. Despite many commendable approaches attempting a quantitative assessment, a generally accepted answer to this question is yet to be found. One thing can be said right from the start, however The utilisation of renewable energy sources cannot possibly fail to impress in such a com parison 7.;An argument frequently used against renewable energy sources, above all against wind energy utilisation, is that it is unpredictable by its nature, and thus unsuitable. The answer to this is simple No reasonable person would think of basing his energy supply on the utilisation of wind power alone. Wind power will always be only a part of the overall power supply system. The required availability, with or without wind turbines, will always be borne by the entire system of interconnected power stations. The comparatively low availability of wind turbines is reduced to the purely technical question as to what extent they can contribute to the firm power of system of inter connected power stations and thus becomes an economic problem, at most.; As ecologically beneficial as possible according to the stateoftheart. In case ofdoubt, always opt for the solution with better ecological impact.