14.2 DETERMINATION OF THE POWER CURVE 565used in past years exhibit designrelated differences which lead to the measurement results being clearly affected by the nonsteadystate and turbulent flow conditions in the atmosphere. In Denmark, anemometers are used in many cases which were devel oped by the Ris Test Station. These anemometers essentially only respond to the horizontal component of the wind velocity vector. The types of anemometer used in Germany respond more strongly to the total amount of the wind velocity vector, i.e. also to the crosswind component. With a given power, the wind velocity measured in this way is higher so that the power characteristic appears to be worse. The differences be come greater with increasing turbulence at the measuring site and have been measured with differences of 57  in individual cases 5. In the meantime, a uniform anemome ter classification is to be prescribed for the power curve measurement according to IEC.;The net electric power of the wind turbine shall be measured using a power measure ment device (e.g. power transducer) and shall be based on measurements of current and voltage on each phase. The power measurement device shall be mounted between the wind turbine and the electrical connection to ensure that only the net active electric power (i.e. reduced by self consumption) is measured. It shall be stated whether the measurements are made on the turbine side or the network side of the transformer.;The measured data shall be normalized to two reference air densities. One shall be the sea level air density, referring to ISO standard atmosphere (1.225 kgm). The other shall be the average of the measured air density data at the test site during periods of valid data collection.;After data normalization the data shall be sorted using the method of bins procedure. The data shall at least cover a wind speed range extending from 1 ms below cutin to 1.5 times the wind speed at 85  of the rated power of the wind turbine. The wind speed range shall be divided into 0.5 ms (bins).;The measured power curve is determined by applying the method of bins for the nor malised data sets, using 0.5 ms bins and the calculation of the mean values of the nor malized wind speed and normalized power output for each wind speed bin. The power values are the tenminute means in each bin of wind velocity. The result is the normal ized and averaged power curve. As mentioned before this curve represents the basis for the calculation of the annual energy yield, which can be expected on a site with a nor mal wind regime.