There is one more comment which should be made regarding the energy industry ingeneral. The construction of conventional power stations had decreased dramatically since the beginning of the seventies, partly because the building of new power stations was hampered severely by the environmental conditions imposed by now. Many pro jects for nuclear power stations came to nothing because of the enormous increase in the capital costs involved. In this situation, the utilities were willing to purchase power without having to risk any investments of their own and this willingness, ultimately, proved to be of benefit to the wind farms financed by private investments.;1980. Socalled developers or wind farmers concluded delivery contracts with the utilities mentioned above, purchased or leased suitable stretches of land and encouraged private investors  especially those taxed highly  to buy wind turbines which were then erected and operated on their land.;At the beginning, the technical basis for the wind farms consisted of relatively smallwind turbine units with a power of up to about 100 kW which were developed by US companies and constructed quickly by mass production techniques. Unlike Denmark, however, these manufacturers had no basic fund of proven technical designs and experi ence that they could tap into. Their systems, whilst quite innovative technically in some cases, turned out to be generally not very reliable so that there was an increasing demand for more thoroughly proven designs. In the meantime, the Danish manufacturers had been able to accumulate a considerable amount of experience in their home market and used the opportunity to expand their production by exporting to the United States.;After a tardy beginning, the development took off dramatically around 1981. Newwind farms sprang up almost daily, many of which disappeared as quickly as they had come into being. Some regions of California were virtually in the grip of a gold rush mentality which also extended to business practices.;The Californian wind farms were essentially concentrated in three regions the areaof the Altamont Pass, east of San Francisco the Tehachapi Mountains, not far from Bakersfield and the area of the San Gorgonio Pass, near Palm Springs, about four hours driving east of Los Angeles (Fig. 2.42). There are an additional number of rela tively small regions where wind farms are installed but these are not very significant numerically.;Some explanations are needed with regard to the local meteorological conditions sincethese are somewhat unique. The Californian wind farms are located on the heights of the coastal foothills bounding the Central Valley to the west and to the east. In the interior east of the Sierra Nevada range, there are the desert regions of the Great Basin, for example the Mojave Desert and Death Valley. During the hot season, which lasts almost all year in California, the air over the desert regions heats up considerably and the rising masses of air produce a lowpressure region into which the cooler air from the Pacific flows via the coastal foothills. At exposed heights mean annual wind velocities of up to 9 ms are reached. In the mountainous terrain, however, the wind conditions are extremely dependent on the location.;This meteorological mechanism is also responsible for the diurnal variation of thewind velocity. The heating up of the desert reaches its peak only around noon which means that the wind over the mountains does not rise up before noon either, and it then blows quite consistently in the afternoon and evening until about midnight. This diurnal variation creates a special advantage for the wind farms. The peak of the power