The costs of generating electricity from wind energy can be demonstrated on the example of a mediumsized wind turbine in the power range of 500 kW and of a large wind turbine with 2 MW rated power. The calculation is based on a site with a mean annual wind speed of 5.5 ms at 30 m height. These wind data characterise a good inland site at some distance from the coast.;The second most important factor after the wind conditions is the service of capitalfor the investment costs. Usually, a relatively small proportion of the means for the investment is raised using the investors own capital and the greater proportion is fi nanced through bank credits. Depending on the economic stability of the project as estimated by the banks, the latter usually demand equity of between 20 and 30 .;In calculating the required service of capital, no distinction has been made betweenequity capital and bank loan in the example. In a first approximation, an investor will expect at least the same interest rate for his own capital as for the bank loan. Profes sional investors will generally expect a shorter repayment time for their equity capital used.;It is true that wind turbines of the 0.5MW power rating type no longer play an impor tant role on the market at present since, as a rule, the usual wind parks consist of tur bines of 1.5 to 3 MW rating. However, mediumsized wind turbines are still of interest as single units for private operators and, above all, in thirdworld countries. Table 20.2 shows the static calculation of the power generation costs for a wind turbine of this size.;If the calculation is based on a service life of the wind turbine of 20 years, the powergeneration costs amount to only about 0.07 USkWh (Table 20.2). This is considerably below the level of the price which must be paid by an electricity consumer under current tariffs. If it were technically possible to use the generated power oneself, i.e. directly on the consumer side, wind power would be an almost unrivalled economical power source. Even if a practical repayment period of 10 years is used as a basis, the power generation costs are still favourable at about 0.10 USkWh.;In practice, however, the real situation for the operator of a wind turbine is determined by the income he receives when the electricity generated is fed into a large inter connected power system. Assuming that the price for the power generated is 0.09 USkWh, this amounts to a repayment time of about 12 to 13 years. From the point of view of a commercial operator, this value is quite acceptable for a longterm invest ment, or the development of wind energy utilisation would not have been quite as mete oric. This time also corresponds to a usual credit period for the investment credits for financing wind energy projects.;The characteristic figure invested capital per kilowatthour generated annually,which is 0.61 USkWh in the example calculated, can be used as criterion for the eco nomic viability of the project (Chapt. 19.1). Under the assumed conditions of payment for electricity, this value must not be significantly higher than 0.60 USkWh if it is to be used for achieving an economic situation wind turbine at a particular site. The prerequisite for the validity of this criterion is, however, that the operating costs are at the normal level (Chapt. 19.9).