Centrifugal forces are not very significant in wind rotors, due to their comparatively low rotational speed. This is in contrast to helicopter rotors, where blade strength and dynamic behaviour are determined by the centrifugal forces.;With a special trick, centrifugal forces can even be used to relieve the load on therotor blades. On some rotors, the rotor blades are inclined downwind out of the plane of rotation, in a slight Vshaped form. This socalled cone angle of the rotor blades has the effect that the centrifugal forces, in addition to the tensile forces, create a bending moment distribution along the blade length which counters the bending moments created by the aerodynamic thrust. However, complete compen sation can only be achieved for one rotor speed and one wind speed.;If the rotor is subjected to other flow conditions, the effect of the cone angle canbe reversed. When the aerodynamic angles of attack are negative, for example with a sudden drop in wind speed, or fast pitching of the blades (rotor emergency stop), the direction of thrust can be reversed for a short time so that the bending moments from the aerodynamic forces and the centrifugal force combine. Whether or not a cone angle of the rotor blade makes sense technically must, therefore, be decided after having taken several aspects into consideration. In more recent turbines there is a tendency to have rotors without cone angle.;Loads caused by gyroscopic effects occur when the rotating rotor is yawed into the wind. A fast yawing rate leads to large gyroscopic moments, which manifest themselves as pitching moments on the rotor axis. However, as yawing rates are normally low, the practical effects are very slight, or, in other words, the yawing rate must be so slow (approx. 0.5 degreessec) that gyroscopic moments do not play a role. It would be uneconomical to have to dimension the structure to the gyroscopic forces (s. Chapt. 10.2). It may occur, that the torsional eigenfrequency of the tower will be excited caused by the yawing motion. This effect has to be considered in the design of the yaw ing system to avoid additional loading on the tower and on the coupled rotortower system.;The attempts to build wind turbines with passive yawing have shown that the gyroscopic forces become a serious problem for these turbines. When wind directions change rapidly, it is unavoidable that the rotor will also be yawed very quickly. Under these conditions, rotor blades, in particular, are subjected to extraordinary bending loads due to the gyroscopic forces involved. Abrupt changes of wind direction are to be expected above all during low wind speeds. This is another reason why passive yawing, which, in any case, can only be implemented on downwind rotors which are no longer being built, is more than problematic (s. Chapt. 10.2).;6.3.2 Uniform and SteadyState Air Flow