The more complex the simulation technique, the more input data are required. But thisis exactly what is lacking. At the design stage, detailed stiffness and damping parameters of the complex mechanical structures are almost never available. Without reliable input data, however, simulation becomes a pointless formality.;If the technical concept of the wind turbine is reasonable, the vibrational couplingbetween rotor and tower will not be as drastic as may be feared, and if it is, the design must be changed. A vibrationally safe overall technical concept with sensible determination of rotor design and tower stiffness and correct placement of the natural frequencies of the critical components is the only decisive prerequisite for managing the vibrational behaviour of a wind turbine. Mathematical simulation has its justification as a checking tool, but it is no substitute for a vibrationally safe design.;The uncertainties remaining in the mathematical simulation of vibration responsehave led to occasional efforts of trying to experimentally determine vibrational behav iour by means of model tests in the wind tunnel. These attempts almost always meet with insurmountable difficulties as to observing the necessary laws of similarity which is required for guaranteeing that the model results can be transferred to the original. The problem is that both aerodynamic model laws and model laws concerning structural elasticity must be observed, something which is not possible in practice with small model scales in the available wind tunnels. Nevertheless, these types of experimental investigations can be of use if they are carried out with limited goals and if the results are interpreted correctly, as they improve the basic understanding of the mechanisms at work.;DLR in Gttingen, Germany, carried out qualitative investigations on an aeroelastic model with a scale of 166 12. A similar test program was carried out in the US for the MOD2 turbine, using a model with a rotor diameter of 3.8 m.;1. Frsching, H.W. Grundlagen der Aeroelastik. Springer, Heidelberg (1974) 2. Eggle, D.M., Stoddard, E.S. Wind Turbine Engineering Design. Van Nostrand and Reinhold Company, New York (1987) 3. Magnus, K. Schwingungen B.G. Teubner, Stuttgart (1969) 4. Gasch, R., Nordmann, R., Pftzner, H. Rotordynamik. SpringerVerlag, Berlin (2002) 5. Sullivan, T.L., Miller, D.R., Spera, D.A. Drive Train Normal Modes Analysis for the ERDANASA 100Kilowatt Wind Turbine Generator, NASA TM73718 (1977) 6. Schlecht, B., et al. Analysen zu Schwingungen in Windenergieanlagen mittels Mehrkrpersimulationen und FiniteElementeMethode, Haus der Technik, Essen (March 1617, 2006) 7. Bradford, S.L., Glasgow, J. Experimental Data and Theoretical Analysis of an Operating 100 kW Wind Turbine. NASA TM73883 (1978) 8. BovingKMW Turbin, AB Wind Turbine System Nsudden, Technical Documentation, Kristineham, Schweden (1985) 9. Vollan, A. Structural Dynamic Problems of Darrieus Rotors, Wind Resources and Darrieus Rotor, Paris (April 1986)