It is common practice to specify the energy output of a wind turbine over one year and as Annual Energy Production (AEP). Next to the investment costs, it is the second decisive quantity with respect to the economics of wind energy utilisation. From the point of view of the operator, the reliability of the forecasting is, therefore, of fundamen tal importance for the entrepreneurial decision to operate a wind turbine. Against this background, the reliability of the power curve and the siterelated wind regime take pri ority. Unfortunately the power curve of the wind turbine as well as the wind data cannot be determined without uncertainties. On the one hand the measurement of the power curve includes uncertainties, on the other hand there are siterelated influences which have to be considered. Therefore a certain conception about the influence of the most important technical design parameters of the wind turbine on the energy yield is also of great use. Given this understanding, the trust in the statements of the experts, which normally cannot be checked in detail by the operator, also increases.;Calculation of the annual energy yield of a wind turbine at a given site requires the power curve of the turbine and the frequency distribution of the wind speeds at hub height at the site (Figs. 14.25 and 14.26). In this example, the cumulative frequency distribution is divided into intervals (bins) with a width of  W  1 ms and the mean generated power is read off the power curve in the corresponding interval. The annual energy yield can be calculated in one calculation as follows;   kWh a  where the power output Pel is given in kW and the wind frequency distribution  in . The annual energy yield is then obtained by summing from ci to co the duration of the wind velocity within an interval being given in hours in accordance with the frequency distribution.;14.27 where the number of hours at full load, partial load and standstill are systemati cally plotted in turn against hours of operation during the year. The annual energy yield, as the integral of power over time, is the area below the curve. The mean annual power output of the wind turbine is indicated by a rectangle of equal area with a base line of 8760 hours and the mean power output along the ordinate.;In energy technology the energy output is usually characterised by the rated powerand the equivalent fullload hours or the usage time. In other words, the calculated en ergy output is the product of rated power and usage time.