MCDA in Environmental Planning 597to the problem, prevents conflicts arising from igno rance, and thereby allows the participants to concen trate to relevant aspects of the current problem. Iden tification of the necessary participants can be done together with the standard stakeholders who are the easiest to identify. Different techniques, such as the systematic approach presented by Mason and Mitroff (1981), can be used for identifying other interest groups. Identifying the potential reasons for people to mobilize around any aspect of the problem also may help to identify stakeholders. Problemoriented maps (Blair and others 1990) can also be used along with other techniques such as brainstorming, Delphi, and the nominal group technique (see, e.g., Hwang and Lin 1987). The interest groups have something to win or lose in the decisionmaking. This highlights the interest con flicts that can be, for example, economic, esthetical, cultural, social, or political. The interest groups can be classified by developing the factions proposed by Suss kind (1985) and Martin (1985) as follows;1. Boosters are those who see the issue as essential to their survival. 2. Friends are those to whom the issue is important, but not essential for survival. 3. Guardians are those who in principle are neutral and can thus easily switch between factions. 4. Nonparticipants or silent ones are totally uninter ested in the problem. They may feel that they have no power to influence decisionmaking or they may put all their trust on the DMs. 5. Hostiles are those with erroneous perceptions, in consistent behavior, or fragile loyalty, who often unknowingly act against their own interests. 6. Preservationists are those who will do anything to oppose the alternatives considered. They favor the socalled zero alternative of rejecting the project.;A discrete multiple criteria decision problem con sists of a finite set of alternatives that are evaluated in terms of multiple criteria. The criteria provide numer ical measures for all relevant impacts of different alter natives. The relevance of different impacts depends on stakeholders points of view. It is necessary to define precisely how each criterion is measured. Usually crite ria are aggregate values computed from a much larger amount of socalled primary factors, which form the lowest level of information, also known as the assess ment level.;In reallife environmental problems, alternatives can be divided into standard and innovative ones. Standard alternatives are obvious from the decision context alone the actual project, the socalled zero alternative (rejection of the project), and other alternatives pre sented by the stakeholders. Innovative alternatives are those emerging through different kinds of negotiations during the process. The number of alternatives is highly situation depen dent. There can be dozens of viable alternatives for choosing a solidwaste management system or in plan ning specific land usage. The number of alternatives is usually smaller in zoning projects, perhaps three to five. In many situations the number of potential alternatives is in principle infinite, but the decisionmaking process requires that a finite number of distinct alternatives be formed. However, the set of alternatives should be al lowed to grow or shrink during the process the initial set of possible alternatives usually leads to a second and third one as the result of hearing different interest groups, making measurements and calculations, etc. It is often also possible to form new alternatives by com bining the best parts from existing alternatives. For example, in the Kirkkonummi General Plan EIA case, two of the regions were redefined (Hokkanen and oth ers 1998a). In the Helsinki Harbour EIA, a total of 25 alternatives were generated from different combina tions of alternative navigation channels and railway and road routes (Hokkanen and others 1999a). The feasibility of the alternatives is defined by the stakeholders. It should be noted that new alternatives may affect new groups of people, who then augment the set of stakeholders. These new stakeholders again may bring up new criteria and alternatives. There is no formal way of constructing a list of possible alternatives and no concrete way of knowing when the set of stake holders is complete enough, other than relying on experience, intuition, and on the vague concept of diminishing marginal return of satisfaction (Banville and others 1998). Banville and others (1998) also present the idea of classifying alternatives into categories based on which stakeholders support them, resist them, or are indiffer ent. This classification of alternatives can serve not only to elicit new ones, but also as a starting point for identifying stakeholders points of view. Once these standard alternatives have been identified, it is useful to create innovative alternatives and to improve existing ones (Gregory and Keeney 1994). New alternatives may arise in other phases of planning also. These should be seen to reflect the increased understanding of the