RISTO LAHDELMA VTT Energy, Technical Research Centre of Finland P.O. Box 1606, FIN02044 VTT, Finland;PEKKA SALMINEN School of Business and Economics University of Jyva skyla P.O. Box 35, FIN40351 Jyva skyla , Finland;ABSTRACT  In environmental planning and decision pro cesses several alternatives are analyzed in terms of multiple noncommensurate criteria, and many different stakeholders with conflicting preferences are involved. Based on our ex perience in reallife applications, we discuss how multicrite ria decision aid (MCDA) methods can be used successfully in such processes. MCDA methods support these pro cesses by providing a framework for collecting, storing, and processing all relevant information, thus making the deci sion process traceable and transparent. It is therefore pos sible to understand and explain why, under several conflict ing preferences, a particular decision was made. The MCDA framework also makes the requirements for new information explicit, thus supporting the allocation of re sources for the process.;In this paper we describe the use of multiple criteria decision aid (MCDA) methods in public environmental planning and decision processes. Many of the opinions and views presented are based on the authors experi ences in a number of reallife applications. Some of these applications are listed in Table 1, which shows for each application the year(s) when the process took place, the applied MCDA methods, and references to publications. Environmental planning and decisionmaking are essentially conflict analyses characterized by sociopoliti cal, environmental, and economic value judgements. Several alternatives have to be considered and evalu ated in terms of many different criteria, resulting into a vast body of data that are often inaccurate or uncertain. To complicate the process further, there are typically a large number of decisionmakers (DMs) with conflict ing preferences. The different points of view of various interest groups also should be considered in the pro cess. Therefore, a single, objectively best solution does not generally exist, and the planning process can be characterized as a search for acceptable compromise solutions. Problemsolving without any methodology may dis tort the final results. Without the help of tools, the DMs;In this paper we describe the use of multiple criteria decision aid (MCDA) methods in public environmental planning and decision processes. Many of the opinions and views presented are based on the authors experi ences in a number of reallife applications. Some of these applications are listed in Table 1, which shows for each application the year(s) when the process took place, the applied MCDA methods, and references to publications. Environmental planning and decisionmaking are essentially conflict analyses characterized by sociopoliti cal, environmental, and economic value judgements. Several alternatives have to be considered and evalu ated in terms of many different criteria, resulting into a vast body of data that are often inaccurate or uncertain. To complicate the process further, there are typically a large number of decisionmakers (DMs) with conflict ing preferences. The different points of view of various interest groups also should be considered in the pro cess. Therefore, a single, objectively best solution does not generally exist, and the planning process can be characterized as a search for acceptable compromise solutions. Problemsolving without any methodology may dis tort the final results. Without the help of tools, the DMstend to focus on a small subset of criteria, fix their opinions based on insufficient information, miscalcu late uncertainties of events, and make motivational dis tortions (Tversky and Kahneman 1986, Payne and Bett man 1992). Simon (1955) explains these phenomena through the socalled bounded rationality behavioral model. Different MCDA methods aim at supporting such complex planning and decision processes by providing a framework for collecting, storing, and processing all relevant information. The core of the selected MCDA method is the decision model, which is a formal spec ification of how different kinds of information are com bined together to reach a solution. MCDA methods are used in environmental planning and decisionmaking processes in order to clarify the planning process, to avoid various distortions, and to manage all the infor mation, criteria, uncertainties, and importance of the criteria. MCDA methods can alleviate the problems caused by limited human computational power. Intui tive or adaptive choices are replaced by a justified and jointly accepted model. The problem setting in multiple criteria decision making problems is typically one of the following;1. Choose one or more best alternatives. This prob lem setting is most frequent in MCDA literature. However, in real environmental problems, the DMs often dislike the idea that some MCDA method would make the decision for them.;Environmental Management Vol. 26, No. 6, pp. 595605  2000 SpringerVerlag New York Inc.