600 R. Lahdelma and othersscale, the differences between values are meaningful. On an ordinal scale only the order of values is mean ingful. Some criteria may be so vague that the experts are only able to provide ordinal judgements for them. Sometimes real DMs prefer ordinal criteria to cardinal criteria. Examples of such vague criteria are technical reliability, landscape, and innovation. Sometimes ordi nal measures are chosen if they can provide sufficient accuracy while allowing considerable costs and time savings. No matter how vague ordinal criteria may sound, if they describe the DMs subjective reality in the problem, the analyst has to accept them. Unfortunately, MCDA tools do not widely support problems where some or all criteria information is or dinal. If the MCDA method requires cardinal scales, the analyst faces the difficult problem of mapping ordinal values onto a cardinal scale. The SMAAO method (Mi ettinen and others 1999) is capable of handling mixed cardinal and ordinal information, and we have used it in three reallife applications, as presented in Table 1. SMAAO handles ordinal criteria by simulating all con sistent ordinal to cardinal mappings.;A principled problem in choosing a decision aid method for a reallife problem is that different methods may provide different results with the same data, and there is usually no means to objectively identify the best alternative or method. Therefore, the choice of method should be well justified in real applications, although this is rarely done. There are some require ments for the MCDA method to be used in public environmental problems;1. The method should be well defined and easy to understand, particularly regarding its central ele ments, such as modeling of criteria and definition of weights. 2. The technique must be able to support the neces sary number of DMs. 3. The method must be able to manage the necessary number of alternatives and criteria. 4. The method should be able to handle the inaccu rate or uncertain criteria information. 5. Due to time and money constraints, the need of preference information from the DMs should be as small as possible.;It is very difficult for any decisionaid method to satisfy all these requirements in the ranking problem. All methods have their own inherent weaknesses. The large number of DMs, alternatives, and criteria often present in public environmental problems emphasizes the last requirement. The planners usually do not have enough time or economic resources for assessing val ueutility functions or performing pairwise compari sons of alternatives and criteria with every DM. The nature of environmental problems can also make it too difficult for most DMs to compare the significance of different criteria. For example, specifying a tradeoff ratio between greenhouse gases and employment may just be too difficult. Several different multicriteria methods have been applied to environmental problems. The main ap proaches can be classified based on the type of decision model they apply (1) value or utility function based methods, such as multiattribute utility theory (MAUT) (Keeney and Raiffa 1976), SMART, the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) (Saaty 1980), interval AHP (Salo and Ha malainen 1992), and the stochastic multicriteria accept ability analysis methods SMAA (Lahdelma and others 1998) SMAA2 (Lahdelma and Salminen 1997, 2000, Hokkanen and others 1998b), SMAAD (Lahdelma and others 1999), and SMAAO (Miettinen and others 1999) and (2) outranking methods such as Electre II (Roy and Bertier 1971), Electre III (Roy 1978) Electre IV (Roy and Hugonnard 1982), Promethee I and II methods (Brans and Vincke 1985), and SMAA3 (Hok kanen and others 1998a). Costbenefit analysis (CBA) could also be classified as a multicriteria method. However, currently its use has decreased in environmental problems in Finland. CBA is still used in road planning for example, but not in problems in our context where we are interested in different valuations of criteria by different stakehold ers. Another classification can be made based on the use of preference information in the method. Most of the methods require preference information in the form of precise weights. Methods that do not require DMs preference information are acceptability analysis (Bana e Costa 1986 1988), SMAA methods, data envelopment analysis (DEA) (Charnes and others 1978), and Electre IV. Some methods can also be used with partial weight information. DEA, SMAA, and interval AHP can handle weight intervals. SMAA and the method of Butler and others (1997) can also be used with arbitrary weight distributions. The advantage of preferenceinformationfree meth ods in real problems is that the DMs avoid many diffi