DMs is large, the search for the right weights is partic ularly difficult. In the public decisionmaking context, the number of DMs is often so large that there is no possibility of obtaining preferences from DMs more than once. This is a problem, because new information is continuously obtained during the planning and decisionmaking process and consequently the DMs preferences also evolve. This is true particularly in situations where the planning is completed several months before the deci sion making, as in environmental impact assessment (EIA) projects. Several techniques for eliciting weights are pre sented in literature. These vary from direct assessment to pairwise comparison methods such as AHP (Saaty 1980) and Macbeth (Bana e Costa and Vansnick 1994). Once again, there exist no right weights that would allow comparisons between different procedures. The weights obtained depend on the technique used. After weight information has been obtained from a group of DMs, there is the difficult problem of aggre gating conflicting weights into a single set of weights that would represent the overall preferences of the group. Various averaging procedures may produce weights and lead to solutions that no one wants. In fact, the overall preferences of a group cannot, in general, be represented by any single set of weights. Here only the use of weight intervals or weight distributions may give a sound starting point. Often it is not possible to obtain any preference information from the DMs. Reasons for this may be that (1) the DMs do not have enough time to study the problem carefully, (2) the analysts do not have re sources enough to reveal the preferences of a large group, (3) the DMs are not able to provide any weights due to the difficulty of the problem, (4) the DMs do not want to confine themselves to any preference state ments in a long process, (5) the DMs are afraid to express their preferences in public because votes from supporters and opponents of a project are valuable later on, and (6) the sometimes group of DMs is not clearly identified and therefore it is difficult to decide whose preferences should be taken into account. For these cases one can not apply methods requiring precise weight information. Instead, the preference informationfree multicriteria methods can be used for describing the potential alternatives and the prefer ences (weights) that support each alternative. This will normally not result in a single solution. Instead, the list of alternatives will be reduced, but the final decision is left to the DMs.;It is important to identify stakeholders points of view in environmental decision problems. The informa tion obtained from the stakeholders helps identify con textspecific impacts that the experts may fail to recog nize. In reallife problems, the experts have been able to develop new alternatives where the number of harm ful impacts has been decisively reduced (Salminen and others 1996, Hokkanen and Salminen 1997a, Hok kanen and others 1998a). The multicriteria planning process as described in this paper has enabled bidirectional learning between experts and interest groups. One of the benefits of MCDA methods is thus that all stakeholders learn to understand the problem better. The decision problem immediately becomes clearer after it has been formal ized in terms of alternatives and criteria. The MCDA formulation provides a comprehensive framework for storing all relevant problem information, makes the requirements for new information explicit, and thus supports allocation of resources. The MCDA approach has also increased discussion between different stakeholders, activated nonpartici pants, and focused the discussion to relevant topics. Stakeholders have started to examine problems com prehensively, not just from their own points of view. Stakeholders have also learned to recognize conflicts based on misunderstandings and solve them. This is proven by the fact that the emphasis of the discussions has changed from alternatives to impacts what kinds of impacts are people really willing to accept? One problem with the meetings organized for dif ferent stakeholders is that they usually reach only the active part of the population consisting mainly of sup porters and opponents of the project, the opponents being generally in the majority. The participants views are usually considerably different from the views of the less active population, who nevertheless form the larg est group when all stakeholders are considered. Ap proximately 6070 of all those who are affected by a certain alternative belong to nonparticipant and guardian groups. Although the meetings help to recog nize impacts that are important for decisionmaking, they cannot be used as the only source of preference information. Therefore, to clarify the preferences of all interest groups, inquiries with larger samples should be used. It is important that the points of view significant for different interest groups be conveyed to the DMs. After the criteria have been constructed and accepted, the conclusions should be based on the criteria. Therefore,