MCDA in Environmental Planning 599around which the criteria are built. For nonexpert stakeholders it can be difficult to recognize different impacts. Consequently, we have approached the prob lem through peoples own experiences. For each stake holder the worstcase scenario of each alternative being considered is presented. Stakeholders are asked why some groups desire this kind of situation and what the disadvantages would be. Next, they are asked to de scribe and justify their most desirable alternative. In addition to the inquiry technique, visualization tech niques can be used for discovering the points of view (see, e.g., Tuovinen 1992). After expressing the differ ent points of view on a questionnaire, participants switch to studying the material collected by experts describing alternatives and impacts. During this phase, the participants may come up with new impacts. All the material obtained is then put together and the criteria are formed. The final set of criteria should meet the following requirements (Keeney and Raiffa 1976);1. Completeness all the important points of view of the problem are covered. 2. Operationality the set of criteria can be measured and used meaningfully in the analysis. 3. Nonredundancy two or more criteria should not measure the same thing. 4. Minimality the dimension of the problem should be kept to a minimum.;Let us consider how the set of criteria in a reallife application meets these requirements. Table 2 shows the final set of criteria in the Savonlinna waste treat ment plant application (Hokkanen and Salminen 1997b). Completeness is satisfied, because these are exactly the criteria the stakeholders wanted to consider. The operationality requirement is well satisfied for cri teria in the economy category, and some other criteria can be assessed fairly well based on earlier similar projects. Still, some criteria, such as manageability of plant waters and cultural history had to be evaluated by experts using discrete scales, which were assumed to be cardinal. Because the DMs understood and accepted these measurements, they can be considered opera tional in this sense. The nonredundancy requirement is not easy to satisfy in reallife problems. When trying to achieve completeness, it is often difficult to avoid par tial overlapping among criteria. In the Savonlinna case, for example, the criteria on recreational use and effects on the standards of housing are slightly overlapping. Overlapping could be reduced by introducing a larger set of more restricted criteria, but this would contradict;Let us consider how the set of criteria in a reallife application meets these requirements. Table 2 shows the final set of criteria in the Savonlinna waste treat ment plant application (Hokkanen and Salminen 1997b). Completeness is satisfied, because these are exactly the criteria the stakeholders wanted to consider. The operationality requirement is well satisfied for cri teria in the economy category, and some other criteria can be assessed fairly well based on earlier similar projects. Still, some criteria, such as manageability of plant waters and cultural history had to be evaluated by experts using discrete scales, which were assumed to be cardinal. Because the DMs understood and accepted these measurements, they can be considered opera tional in this sense. The nonredundancy requirement is not easy to satisfy in reallife problems. When trying to achieve completeness, it is often difficult to avoid par tial overlapping among criteria. In the Savonlinna case, for example, the criteria on recreational use and effects on the standards of housing are slightly overlapping. Overlapping could be reduced by introducing a larger set of more restricted criteria, but this would contradictthe minimality requirement. The final set of 14 criteria is a good compromise among the requirements.;Usually the criteria are measured as aggregates of primary factors, which may consist of, for example, emission levels for individual chemicals, size of affected population, noise distribution in certain areas, etc. The number of primary factors can be very large as they comprise every point of view considered by different stakeholders. In later phases of the planning process the assessment level can be used to describe each im pact very precisely, e.g., at emission component or spe cies levels. Conceptually, it is possible to carry out the comparison of the alternatives directly at the assess ment level. However, due to the large number of dif ferent factors and the fact that several factors may measure essentially the same impact, criteria are used to aggregate related factors together. The impacts of the chosen alternatives will be realized in the future, and therefore it may be impossible to mea sure the impacts accurately in the decision situation. As is well known, even the costs of a project are often estimated incorrectly the same holds true for more difficult envi ronmental criteria. However, the decisions must be made under this inherent uncertainty. When the inaccuracy or uncertainty of criteria values is considerable, it should be represented explicitly using, for example, confidence in tervals, probability distributions, pseudocriteria, etc. Sometimes the criteria measurements are based on expert judgements. In such cases the attainable scales for criteria may be cardinal or ordinal. On a cardinal