596 R. Lahdelma and othersall relevant data, uncertainties, and preferences can be considered explicitly. This makes the process traceable and transparent. It is thus possible to understand and explain why, under several conflicting preferences, a particular decision was made.;The stakeholders consist of all the different people associated with the planning and decision process. In the beginning of the process one should identify all stakeholders and explicitly determine who should par ticipate in the planning process, in which phases, and to what extent. There must be explicit and convincing arguments for adding or dropping a stakeholder. Inter estingly, any argument to include or exclude different stakeholders provides useful information to the plan ner about the problem. After this process, the supervi sory group, based on voluntary and institutional partic ipation, eventually is formed (Alterman and others 1984). The stakeholders can be classified into standard stakeholders and interest groups. Standard stakehold ers are those who have the legitimate responsibility to participate in the process. Standard stakeholders in clude the DMs, experts, and planners and analysts re sponsible for the preparations and managing the pro cess. In many countries the DMs in public decision making are elected through a democratic process. In Finland, the number of DMs in municipal administra tions is usually quite large, varying from the 520 mem bers in the municipal boards up to some 100 members in municipal councils. The majority of these DMs have other fulltime jobs and thus have very limited time to dedicate for the preparation of decisionmaking. The DMs knowhow of environmental questions and their ability to understand the causality between different impacts varies greatly. Interest groups are typically political parties, civic organizations, or residents of the impact area. Each interest group has their own point of view for evaluat ing potential alternatives and often has different rela tional systems of preference (Roy and Vincke 1984, Bana e Costa 1988). Depending on their interests, the groups will stand up for different alternatives and ob;The stakeholders consist of all the different people associated with the planning and decision process. In the beginning of the process one should identify all stakeholders and explicitly determine who should par ticipate in the planning process, in which phases, and to what extent. There must be explicit and convincing arguments for adding or dropping a stakeholder. Inter estingly, any argument to include or exclude different stakeholders provides useful information to the plan ner about the problem. After this process, the supervi sory group, based on voluntary and institutional partic ipation, eventually is formed (Alterman and others 1984). The stakeholders can be classified into standard stakeholders and interest groups. Standard stakehold ers are those who have the legitimate responsibility to participate in the process. Standard stakeholders in clude the DMs, experts, and planners and analysts re sponsible for the preparations and managing the pro cess. In many countries the DMs in public decision making are elected through a democratic process. In Finland, the number of DMs in municipal administra tions is usually quite large, varying from the 520 mem bers in the municipal boards up to some 100 members in municipal councils. The majority of these DMs have other fulltime jobs and thus have very limited time to dedicate for the preparation of decisionmaking. The DMs knowhow of environmental questions and their ability to understand the causality between different impacts varies greatly. Interest groups are typically political parties, civic organizations, or residents of the impact area. Each interest group has their own point of view for evaluat ing potential alternatives and often has different rela tional systems of preference (Roy and Vincke 1984, Bana e Costa 1988). Depending on their interests, the groups will stand up for different alternatives and objectives, thus creating competition and conflicts based on misunderstanding, opposing interests, and different values (Dietz and others 1989, Keeney 1992, Banville and others 1998). Interest groups add a sociopolitical dimension to the process in the sense that those views and alternatives that they find so important must effec tively be taken into account when the actual decision is made (Douglas 1986). However, the points of view may be implicit or, unless specifically questioned, people may simply refrain from expressing them. Often people intuitively choose their best (or worst) alternative and then express such environmental preferences that jus tify their choice. For successful planning and decision making, it is important to identify the true points of view of stake holders. Consider, for example, people who do not want a new waste management system be built in their residential area, because that would decrease the value of their houses and lower the prestige of their neigh borhood. In a preference poll with a predefined palette of commonly approved environmental criteria, the stakeholders might express that they consider certain emissions caused by this plant the most severe environ mental problem that should be alleviated at any cost. The unsatisfying result from using this false preference information might then be to build an even larger waste management system with more efficient cleaning apparatus at the same location, instead of relocating the plant somewhere else. Only after all points of view of different stakeholders are recognized, it is possible to identify the criteria necessary for decisionmaking. Thus, the criteria come from the stakeholders involved in the process, i.e., the criteria are context dependent. Value conflicts should also be recognized, because disagreements between stakeholders are often due to the fact that different stakeholders emphasize criteria differently. For exam ple, no one can dispute the harmful impacts caused by environmental damage and decreasing jobs, but opin ions differ as to whether environmental damage poses a greater threat than decreasing jobs. Keeping all stakeholders informed from the begin ning of the project will increase the probability of a successful decision process. The reason for this is that early participation makes stakeholders more engaged;Figure 1. Phases and stakeholder par ticipation in environmental multicrite ria decision processes.