598 R. Lahdelma and othersproblem. Accordingly, creation of new alternatives may often be more valuable than focusing on the existing ones (Ozernoy 1984). Development of new alternatives is not always bene ficial. Some interest groups may try to invent arbitrary new alternatives far away from their area just to prevent, for example, a landfill being located in their neighbor hood. This, of course, only slows down the decision process and does not help in the search of good cre ative compromises.;In the multiple criteria approach, the criteria pro vide numerical measures for all relevant impacts of different alternatives. Various classifications are useful for identifying different impacts and evaluating their relevance. The most common environmental impacts in environmental planning projects include impacts on the soil, groundwater, surface water, regional air qual ity, atmosphere, local flora and fauna, biodiversity, and landscape, as well as disturbing noise. Besides these environmental impacts, there are impacts that relate to the economy, employment, attainability and valuation of different areas, use of energy, services, safety, and health. Direct impacts on the physiobiological environ ment indirectly generate significant social impacts, which can be classified into demographic changes, in stitutional conditions, communityarea infrastructure, impacts on lifestyle, impacts on attitudes, and conflicts between different social groups. The impacts can also be classified according to their temporal, spatial, and regulatory properties. Tempo rally, impacts can be classified as unique, recurrent, or continuous. Continuous and recurrent impacts can be either short or long term. Spatially, impacts can classi fied as local, regional, national, international, or global. Impacts may be formally regulated or not regulated at all. For nonregulated impacts, it should be decided how the temporal and spatial differences are taken into consideration (Grassin 1986, Bouyssou 1990). For ex ample, the impacts of large construction projects;(roads, industrial plants, harbors, etc.) are clearly dif ferent during the construction phase from the impacts generated during operation. The impacts of new road projects are dispersed geographically on very large ar eas of different type. Finally, impacts may be classified as marginal or significant. The relevance of different impacts depends on stakeholders points of view. Various techniques have been proposed for determining these points of view. Roy (1985) considers that these points of view will emerge after a thorough analysis of various conse quences, taking into account the cultural background of the stakeholders involved. Keeney and Raiffa (1976), Keeney (1992), and Saaty (1980) advocate a hierarchi cal way of constructing the criteria through the decom position of an overall objective into subobjectives that are further decomposed, until the relevant impacts are reached. The bottomup and hierarchical topdown ap proaches are, of course, not mutually exclusive. Both approaches have been used in planning processes. We have mostly used a bottomup approach in our reallife applications, as illustrated in Figure 2. In the early phases of defining criteria, the experts and the supervisory group can specify impacts caused by the alternatives. The starting point may, for exam ple, consist of the demands set by legislation and ac quired problemrelated expertise. As for environmental impacts, four main approaches have been suggested to assist in their identification map overlays, impact checklists, impact matrices, and causeeffect networks (Julien and others 1992). The impact matrices and causeeffect networks identify the environmental im pacts by establishing the important causal links between the sources and the targets of the impacts. At this phase, special meetings for the different stakeholders or open public meetings should be orga nized. With these meetings the planner is seeking the points of view and alternatives that different stakehold ers feel important enough to be taken into consider ation when the decision is made. It is important that stakeholders involved in the decisionmaking process understand and accept the impacts and points of view;Figure 2. From stakeholders points of view to identification of impacts and forming aggregate criteria.