2. Complete or partial ranking of the alternatives. In real environmental problems, the DMs often re quire a ranking of the alternatives even in cases where the final decision is to choose the best alter native. This approach gives the DMs more freedom to choose the second, third, etc., best alternative if they for some reason want to. 3. Acceptability analysis of the alternatives. The result is a description of what kind of preferences would give the best rank, or any specific rank, for each alternative. This approach allows maximum free dom for the DMs.;Because the planning and decision process in public environmental problems involves many people and or ganizations and may last from months to several years, it is necessary to split the process into distinct phases. One possible phase model is illustrated in Figure 1. First, based on a general problem statement, the vari ous stakeholders are identified. The stakeholders typi cally include the DMs, various interest groups affected by the decision, experts in the appropriate fields, and planners and analysts responsible for the preparations and managing the process. Then the problem is de fined formally in terms of alternative solutions and the various criteria to be considered. The criteria consist typically of measures for technical feasibility, cost effec tiveness, probable impacts on different population groups, various environmental impacts, etc. It is impor tant that all stakeholders or their representatives have the opportunity to participate in this phase so that all different points of view are taken into account. Mea surement of the various impacts and their uncertainties is typically performed by experts in appropriate fields. The decision analyst should select a decision aid;Because the planning and decision process in public environmental problems involves many people and or ganizations and may last from months to several years, it is necessary to split the process into distinct phases. One possible phase model is illustrated in Figure 1. First, based on a general problem statement, the vari ous stakeholders are identified. The stakeholders typi cally include the DMs, various interest groups affected by the decision, experts in the appropriate fields, and planners and analysts responsible for the preparations and managing the process. Then the problem is de fined formally in terms of alternative solutions and the various criteria to be considered. The criteria consist typically of measures for technical feasibility, cost effec tiveness, probable impacts on different population groups, various environmental impacts, etc. It is impor tant that all stakeholders or their representatives have the opportunity to participate in this phase so that all different points of view are taken into account. Mea surement of the various impacts and their uncertainties is typically performed by experts in appropriate fields. The decision analyst should select a decision aidmethod and model suitable for the problem. However, it is important that also the DMs understand the model and accept the necessary assumptions for its use. Only after the decision model has been selected, it is mean ingful to collect preference information from the DMs, interest groups, or both. Depending on the problem setting, the decision model can then be applied to provide one or more draft solutions or some other descriptive information. In the end the DMs make the final decision based on the draft solution and all infor mation produced so far. Because the DMs are respon sible for the consequences of the decision, they must still have the freedom to deviate from the draft solu tion. The phases are not necessarily executed in strict sequence. Some phases may be executed in different order or in parallel, and learning during the process may make it necessary to repeat some of the phases. In the environmental context we emphasize two cen tral ideas in the above process. Firstly, the different stakeholders should be identified early, and they should also be allowed to participate in the different phases of the process. This provides a maximal amount of information into the process and ensures that all different points of view are taken into account. Certain situationspecific information that otherwise would be ignored can be incorporated through early participa tion, since only local stakeholders can provide it. Dif ferent stakeholders are also more likely to accept the final decision when they have had the opportunity to participate. Normally, several stakeholder meetings are required at each phase. It may be possible to replace some meetings by using email or teleconferencing. Secondly, application of MCDA methods ensures that;aThese applications are also summarized in the report by Salminen and others (1996).bThese applications are also summarized in the report by Salminen and others (1998).