MAXIMUM DESIGN WIND SPEED The maximum wind speed a wind turbine in auto matic, unattended operation, but not necessarily generating, has been designed to sustain without damage to structural components or loss of ability to function normally. MAXIMUM POIYER The largest amount of net power delivered by a wind turbine in normal operation. MAXIMUM TESTED WIND SPEED The maximum wind speed a wind turbine in auto matic, unattended operation, but not necessarily generating, has sustained without damage to structural components or loss of ability to function normally. MEAN WIND SPEED Statistical mean of the instantaneous values of the windspeed during a given period. Note  This period can vary from a few seconds to a year.;METHOD OF BINS A data reduction procedure by which test data are grouped into wind speed intervals (bins). For each bin, the number of samples and sum of parameter samples are recorded. The average parameter value within each wind speed bin can then be evaluated. (This is a general technique applicable to a variety of parameters.);MONO TOWER A wind turbine support tower comprising of a single column. NACELLE The housing which contains the drive train and other elements on top of a HAWT tower.;NET POWER (P) The power available from a wind turbine less any power needed for control, monitoring, display or maintaining operation, ie power available to the user. Unless otherwise specified, P will be l0 minute average values.;NET REACTM POWER (Q) The reactive power supplied by the power system or absorbed by the power system. Unless otherwise specified, Q will be l0 minute average values.;ONESEVENTH POWER LAW Wind speed profile which uses the power law with an exponent of l7. (See also power law.);OVERSPEED CONTROL A system that limits rotor speed to a maximum value. PEAK POWER RATIO OPERATION (PPR) Variable speed operation when main taining the tip speed ratio for maximum power output.;AP wP  2 eryv POWER CONDITIONING To change or modify the characteristics of electrical power (ie d.c. to a.c. or 12 to 32V).