UNITS Numerical values are in metric Systems Internationale (SI) units. If desired they may be followed in parentheses by the local units.;UPWIND The direction towards the wind. UTILITY INTERCONNECTION Electrical connection between a wind turbine and a utility grid in which energy can be transferred from the wind turbine to the utility grid and vice versa.;WEIBULL DISTRIBUTION A commonly used probability distribution, more general in nature than the Rayleigh distribution. Often used in wind engineering, as it conforms well to the observed longterm distribution of mean wind speeds for a range of sites. Expressed as rr. 1 f ulkl f f ulkl p(r) ltl tij  .ptil;WEIBULL DISTRIBUTION A commonly used probability distribution, more general in nature than the Rayleigh distribution. Often used in wind engineering, as it conforms well to the observed longterm distribution of mean wind speeds for a range of sites. Expressed as rr. 1 f ulkl f f ulkl p(r) ltl tij  .ptilwhere p() is the Weibull probability distrubution of , u is the mean wind speed of interest, and c is the site parameter k is the shape parameter both of which can be evaluated from real data. c and k are related to the long term (ie annual) mean wind speed, V, via V  cl(llk) where l is the gamma function. When integrated and evaluated between specified limits, will indicate the fraction of time spent within these limits.;WINDDIESEL SYSTEM See Autonomous System. WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS) A system for converting kinetic energy from the wind into a usable form.;WIND ENERGY CONVERTER (WEC) (pl WECs) A device for transforming the kinetic energy from the wind to another form of energy. WIND SHEAR A variation of wind velocity in a plane normal to the wind direction, usually in the vertical direction.;WIND SPEED DURATION CURVE A characteristic depicting the cumulative hours the wind speed exceeds a specified wind speed in a year as a function of these specified speeds. WIND SPEED PROFILE Characteristic of wind speed as a function of height above ground.